Words by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Economic Forum of the Americas (IEFA), at the Four Seasons, CABA

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50417-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-foro-economico-de-las-americas-iefa-en-el-four-seasons-caba

Wednesday March 27, 2024

Words by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Economic Forum of the Americas (IEFA), at the Four Seasons, CABA

Good afternoon everyone, if it is about exploring opportunities, clearly one would have to talk about growth issues. The problem is that, when one finds a deeply unbalanced macro, growth becomes very difficult, I would almost say impossible. And especially, when for many years, relative prices have been distorted and the economy has been put in a situation that is out of balance and that situation makes trying to live in a kind of permanent boom, when the boom comes it is much more violent. Therefore, when the correction of relative prices is carried out, what is generated is a contraction in activity and employment and the more violent and longer this process of overstimulating the economy is, the stronger the contraction.

In that sense, Argentina has lived – for more than 20 years – under a savage populist regime, which has led to the destruction of capital, the destruction of productivity, which is why we are in an absolutely miserable situation. Yes, because populism is not free; Salaries, in dollars, on average, in the 90s, were 1,800 dollars and if you adjust for American inflation that would imply that Argentine salaries, on average, should be 3,000 dollars, something like 3 million pesos. And today with luck, if we exaggerate and become very optimistic, we could say that they are 600 dollars, which is false because they are less. This means that we Argentines in this populist adventure have lost 80 percent of our income, that is the true catastrophe. The consequence of this is that we have more than 50 percent poor and 10 percent indigent, or a little more as well. This means that the country, which produces food for 400 million human beings and has a fiscal pressure on the food producing sector of 70 percent, meaning that the State keeps the food for 280 million people, has 5,000 ,000 Argentines who do not have enough to eat, which constitutes a true catastrophe. But not only is it a catastrophe in terms of growth, well-being, employment, salaries, but the inheritance was very complicated, the inheritance we received.

I am going to describe the inheritance that we received and the measures that we were taking, during these first 100 days of government, and it is not to mourn, because the reality is that if there was always something, that was made clear to us with "the Chief" it is that, if we truly managed to win the elections, it was because we were truly in a disastrous situation, because for a libertarian liberal who openly says so to come to power, it is because – precisely – the situation was not going to be an easy situation. That is to say, they were going to leave things very difficult for us, because otherwise the populists would continue to win.

And for people to wake up, in the way they are doing, it obviously had to be a very complicated situation. So, I would almost tell you, that we were always prepared to receive this hot potato, and you can see that, because if we had not taken quick measures we would have already been blown up several times.

Specifically, when you study, you review the literature on early crisis indicators, when you have twin deficits, for 4 GDP Points, it is a yellow alert; If they have 8 GDP Points, not only is it a red alert, but they are going to suffer a major blow. We inherited twin deficits of 17 points of GDP, more or less so that they have an order of magnitude of the disaster we have received. That is to say, the size of the pineapple was going to be colossal; basically the inheritance had the worst of the three worst crises, in Argentina, it had a monetary imbalance that was worse than the one we had before the “Rodrigazo”, in the year 75; We had an imbalance in the Central Bank's balance sheet that was worse than the one Alfonsín had at the beginning of 1989, which ended in hyperinflation and worse social indicators than in 2001, that is, in the run-up to the crisis of 2002. That is, it was the sum of all evils, literally. In that sense, that twin deficit, of 7 Points of GDP, was basically composed of 15 Points of the consolidated fiscal deficit. Those 15 Points 5 corresponded to the Treasury and 10 corresponded to the Central Bank. What's more, to have an order of magnitude of the disaster, which we basically received although, throughout the previous government, the monetary issue was used to finance the fiscal imbalance, for 28 Points of GDP. Those 28 Points 13 took place last year; not a minor issue if you start to think about why the monetary base already – today – is 2.6 of the GDP, that is, they left a five-fold increase in prices and if you also look at the balance of the BC, having possessions in Leliqs, which were between 30 and 90 days, that is, 30, 60 and 90 days, all passed through repos, with which there was the possibility of multiplying the amount of money by 4, in one day.

In this context, furthermore, during the first week of December, prices were running at 1 percent daily, which means that in annual terms, it is 3,700 percent annual inflation. If they stopped, in the first two weeks, that was 7,500 percent, annualized, and if you look at the wholesale inflation for the month of December, which was 54 percent, that annualized is 17,000 percent, so as in the face of hyperinflation, if the economy had entered a recessionary path already in what was the second and third quarter, last year, but it was fired up with a lot of monetary issue to try to force an electoral result that was not given to them and In this context, it was essential to avoid hyperinflation. But to avoid hyperinflation it was necessary to generate a very tough stabilization program, a program that we had and that we were only able to announce, on the third day, basically because we had the issue of appointments, in the Central Bank (BC). And basically it had the three fundamental elements that any stabilization program has, which were a fiscal adjustment, an exchange rate correction and the definition of a new monetary policy. In that sense, for us the fundamental thing was to end the monetary issue so that there was no monetary validation of the price increase and that it did not end up escalating and generating hyperinflation.

In that sense, together with the devaluation, which was honest because basically the only thing we did was bring the exchange rate to the market exchange rate, adjusted by Country Tax, and in that context on the fiscal level we decided to go with what was called the zero deficit policy. But zero deficit seriously, not a liar, that is, zero deficit in the line of the financial result, that is, after paying interest. That is very important, because if we reached zero deficit, in the financial line, it means that the debt does not grow any more. And if the debt does not grow more, the debt-product ratio is not increasing and therefore one becomes temporarily solvent and the consequence of this is that the country risk begins to fall and the interest rate will fall. Thus the interest rate recovers its essential functions, which is to be a mechanism of inter-temporal coordination and that the growth process is related, precisely, to the interest rate, the natural rate of interest, that is, that of the market, not the one that a bureaucrat comes up with when tinkering with the BC. Let me clarify so that it is clear, that thing about playing…. Once, with a person, I remember saying: “you are worse than Moreno” because Moreno controlled the prices, of the day, of today, but you want to control the interest rate, with which you want to control the prices of today. and of the future. Because? Because the interest rate is the relative price of present goods over future goods. So this would be much more complicated.

Thus, we also began a process of cleaning up the balance sheet of the Central Bank and the reality is that we believed that we were going and had the objective of reaching zero deficit, in the year 2024, and the truth is that we were perfectly and absolutely convinced of carrying out a fiscal adjustment, which – obviously – has a lot of chainsaw and a lot of blender and if we wanted to do it quickly we had to use both things and there is a lot of blender and much more, in reality, of chainsaw because we eliminated public works outright, something of which I am deeply proud since public works are a great source of corruption, of theft to which – I imagine – all good people should oppose. (APPLAUSE). On the other hand, we also eliminated discretionary transfers to the provinces; We also fired 50,000 public employees, not only that but contracts were also terminated and look, now, more contracts are falling and 70,000 contracts are going to fall. We also eliminated 200,000 social programs, delivered irregularly and at no time did we neglect social policy because – in the middle – we doubled the AUH; we double the Alimentar Card; We multiplied, by three, the assistance, in the Thousand Days Plan, that is, to pregnant women, and not only that, but we also quadrupled the assistance for school supplies and created a mechanism so that middle-income families, who are going to The private schools, with low fees, basically had a containment mechanism so that the children did not lose the school they attended and did not have to suffer the shock of changing schools, meaning that we also had a strong social perspective in what we were doing and we also did something that, at the time, when – Minister Pettovello designed it – the red circle, which is increasingly analogous and does not understand anything of what we do, because we and the digital age It fell short, but the interesting thing is that, at one point, Minister Pettovello announced that the social programs did not have to verify that they were working, that is, the social programs were given and they were required to provide compensation for work. and obviously, let's say, no one told what that whole situation was like and then we, knowing how hard the first months were going to be, while the adjustment took place, because apart from when you generate an increase in savings and have no counterpart investments, it generates fall in activity and that causes employment to fall and/or real wages to fall and that could lead to social tension, which we wanted to cushion. And in that sense, it is very interesting because Minister Pettovello points out the need for them to verify that they had worked. Obviously, the large number of apes, and I apologize to the Humane Society for insulting the apes, who watch Argentine politics,where some obviously respond that they are very angry because they have no agenda, but let's say those apes – sorry to the apes, back – strongly criticized Minister Pettovello for this. What they did not realize is that it was a way to end the intermediaries, where all governments wanted to end the intermediaries, but the one that did it was this government. So, basically the people who receive social programs obviously receive a card and that goes into an account. So they believed that with this they made sure that they were not going to be extorted, what they did not know is that you have to go to verify and they were working and there, when you were going to receive the verification that they had been working, the Bellibonis of life, keeping half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.but let's say those apes – sorry to the apes, back – strongly criticized Minister Pettovello for this. What they did not realize is that it was a way to end the intermediaries, where all governments wanted to end the intermediaries, but the one that did it was this government. So, basically the people who receive social programs obviously receive a card and that goes into an account. So they believed that with this they made sure that they were not going to be extorted, what they did not know is that you have to go to verify and they were working and there, when you were going to receive the verification that they had been working, the Bellibonis of life, keeping half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.but let's say those apes – sorry to the apes, back – strongly criticized Minister Pettovello for this. What they did not realize is that it was a way to end the intermediaries, where all governments wanted to end the intermediaries, but the one that did it was this government. So, basically the people who receive social programs obviously receive a card and that goes into an account. So they believed that with this they made sure that they were not going to be extorted, what they did not know is that you have to go to verify and they were working and there, when you were going to receive the verification that they had been working, the Bellibonis of life, keeping half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.where all governments wanted to end the intermediaries, but the one who did it was this government. So, basically the people who receive social programs obviously receive a card and that goes into an account. So they believed that with this they made sure that they were not going to be extorted, what they did not know is that you have to go to verify and they were working and there, when you were going to receive the verification that they had been working, the Bellibonis of life, keeping half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.where all governments wanted to end the intermediaries, but the one who did it was this government. So, basically the people who receive social programs obviously receive a card and that goes into an account. So they believed that with this they made sure that they were not going to be extorted, what they did not know is that you have to go to verify and they were working and there, when you were going to receive the verification that they had been working, the Bellibonis of life, keeping half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.When you were going to receive verification that you had been working, the Bellibonis of life appeared, taking half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.When you were going to receive verification that you had been working, the Bellibonis of life appeared, taking half of people's income. And they only validated it if you brought them the pretty ones, where they have to validate that they were in the marches. In other words, in reality, they stole half of the money and not only that, but they also had to go and work as picketers, meaning what you were doing was financing criminals and also ruining the functioning of the street. In that sense, when the need for compensation was eliminated, until the month of April, what happened, well, those criminals could not take away from people the money they received for the social program. Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.Therefore, that meant – without spending another peso – doubling the assistance and at the same time we set up a telephone line to report the pressures and extortions of these criminals and we have received close to 300 thousand complaints and today there are 18 thousand cases, in justice. That is to say, they are going to pay for having pressured people to go to the marches. And what's more, Belliboni threatened us that he was going to gather 50,000 people in the Plaza, with which, evidently, he planned to bring 100,000. We, from the Nation, contributed 12 thousand troops, I don't remember what number the City contributed, but it was tremendous, because there were more police officers than people, because there were only 3 thousand, which made it a resounding success, which in At that time, there was coordination between Minister Bullrich, Pettovello and the Minister of Infrastructure, where also in the means of public transport the statement that cutting does not charge was presented, and the lines to make complaints and there we also began to order the street. That is to say, we take away their firepower, because now they cannot extort people to do this and we also begin to comply with order. Therefore, one of the demands that we received as a government, which was to put the streets in order, is what we are doing. Because, furthermore, today, he who cuts does not get paid. And furthermore, whoever makes them... pays for them. And that is working perfectly.

Not only that, but, although we hoped to achieve financial balance throughout the year, the hard work of each of the ministers allowed that financial surplus to be achieved in the month of January. And obviously the red circle – it was logical – began to predict that we were going to have very strong deficits in February. And unfortunately for those who live betting against those we want to change, we once again had a financial surplus in the month of February. Specifically, what we are doing was obtaining a result and in reality, that, if you take, the first two months, which is equivalent to half a point of GDP, of primary surplus, that annualized would be 6 Points. That is to say, therefore we have overadjusted what we needed, because we only needed to make an adjustment of 5 points of GDP. It's very funny because there are many who say that this is not sustainable, that this, that that, when they said that the only thing that could be done was to adjust 1 point of GDP, well we adjusted 5 points, but of course that implies a dose of courage that others do not have. But that is not all because there is also the question of the adjustment that we made within the balance of the Central Bank, which generated 10 points of fiscal, quasi-fiscal deficit and today that number is already 4. That is, with which there is no historical record - a world level – that a government has made an adjustment of 11 points in GDP in three months.

And unfortunately for the Helicopter Club, and for all those who wish us to do badly, especially for all of us whose jobs we cut, which are quite obvious, whose jobs we cut because they are going to see them complain. There is a saying that says that where there is a Kirchnerist kicking it is because he cut his job, well that's how it is. And not Kirchnerists too, but look at some other important economic group. You can imagine who I'm talking about. Aside from that, they are very angry because Elon Musk arrived, the important thing about this is that in the face of the inflationary disaster that we had, already when we took office, in three weeks, inflation was at 30 percent, the retail inflation, and it was enough expect that the month will close in terms of 45 percent and I remember that one weekend, the journalist Gabriel Anello, a great journalist and even better person, asked me what was happening with inflation and I told him the truth, that if it remained in 30 was a large number, because it meant that then, the fourth week, the prices had stopped and had stopped growing and we found that it was 25, that is, there was a retraction of the prices, which had been set from the third week towards the second. And then, in the month of January, inflation was 20 percent, and in February it was 13 percent.

Now, when you clean up the effects of the statistical drag, which has to do with the once-for-all increases, such as the recomposition of rates, and the prepaid ones, that is equivalent to 6 points, which means that the true inflation, of month of February, it was 7 percent. That is to say, we are putting the inflation rate within one digit and what's more, even though they will leave all these elements within the index, but the issue of promotions could be captured in some way, which cannot be captured by the index. of prices, because it is a non-linear setting of prices and depends on what each citizen consumes, so it is impossible to capture through the CPI the effect of two for one, three for two and all those things, so there is a kind of estimation how much that weighs, but it cannot be documented and that would imply that if this effect is taken into account, despite the previous ones, we would also be within one digit. What's more, in the third week of March, the rise in prices stopped, meaning that we are walking on the right side, in terms of anti-inflationary policy. In fact, some of the criticisms that are made of us, the truth is, are quite particular, because – for example – if you look at the evolution of the inflation rate, the fall at which it is occurring, the speed of the fall, is more stronger than what occurred during convertibility. When you look at the effects of stabilization in convertibility, today prices fall much faster, or the inflation rate falls much faster. This also has a meaning, and what happens is that, when convertibility was made, the amount of money was endogenous, that is, when you had an increase in the demand for money, the way to validate it was that you brought the dollars and the They sold to the Central Bank and that implied an expansion of the amount of money and that allowed the rearrangement of relative prices to occur with rising prices. Notice that since we took over the monetary base has practically not changed and we bought 11.5 billion dollars in the market and not only that, but we also had the expansion of the amount of money through the PUC that the previous BC management used to try to control the exchange rate, which in addition, we had expansion due to remunerated liabilities, but the contraction due to BOPREAL has been so great that the monetary base did not change or changed very little. So we still have the same monetary base, 10 trillion, but now on the asset side we have 11.5 billion dollars more reserves. Therefore, we are carrying out a very strong process of cleaning up the Central Bank's balance sheet and we will soon have zero net reserves, when the previous government left us negative 11.5 billion dollars. Not only are we achieving that, but, when the demand for money is recomposed, since the nominal amount of money is fixed,That implies that to rebuild your monetary holdings you have to get rid of assets. Therefore, the slowdown in price growth is much more violent than in the convertible scheme, because in the convertible scheme the quantity of money expanded according to the demand for money and did not generate conflict with the goods market and this is which causes the inflation rate to fall much faster.

I also find it very funny those who ask to change the rate of the evaluation rate, which is ridiculous because today the free exchange rate does not show a gap, because if I take the exchange rate of the reference Central Bank and multiply it by 1,175 which is the PAIS tax, would be around 1,060. Therefore, I do not have a gap, I have a negative gap. Therefore, if the market does not put it somewhere else because I am going to modify it arbitrarily. Based on what? From an account made by crude economists, because they make the account of the real exchange rate, and the question is: Or have they never seen that during periods of crisis the real exchange rate is very high and in periods of bonanzas it is very low? Or maybe they didn't see the trend? Or have the conditions of supply and demand for all goods in the Argentine economy and throughout the world not changed? How can they pretend to be so arrogant about determining what the price of something is? Yes, they also average the average. Of what thing? Yes, with the standard deviation that that average has, it is stupid to do that.

I have an article about that that says the real exchange rate is when economists are part of the problem. And, furthermore, it implies a problem of fatal arrogance or rudeness, because it would imply, let's say, knowing the preferences, technology, and endowments, not only of our economy, but also that of the rest of the world. It seems quite pathetic to believe that they can have all that information to make all those decisions.

Unfortunately in Argentina, public education - because it is all public, it can be privately managed, state managed - has done a lot of damage, washing people's brains and leading to the reading of authors who have truly been disastrous for the history of humanity. and, especially for Argentina. I always make the joke that if you go to the University of Buenos Aires, to the Faculty of Economic Sciences and ask: Who is Ludwig von Mises? They are going to tell you that he is the 9th in Holland, and for others he is the best economist of all time along with Murray Newton Rothbard. Of course, yes, they know the bearded man, the bearded German, that impoverisher Marx, they do know him. But beyond this situation, the other funny thing is that if I have the dollar futures curve aligned with the Crawling peg that the Central Bank is carrying, why would I devalue? It's incredible, it's ridiculous. They are looking at market data and no. The whole market is wrong, they look like James. It's incredible because when the Keynesians talk about the great investor James was... He dedicated himself to finance and went bankrupt like a rat and the argument... if you look at Damodaran's Valuation book there is James' phrase, which says that he was so arrogant which says: “There is no point in being right when the entire market is wrong. They are going to lose anyway.” So they were all wrong, except him, but how they all turned against him, he lost money and thus went bankrupt. He had to go ask his father, who was a friend of Marshall, for the spittoon. He took a 6-month course and was admitted to Cambridge. And when they say that he was a great investor it was all a lie because in reality as he was a person with a lot of influence in English politics then he was on both sides of the counter, during the War and the Great Depression. In other words, he was both in England and in the United States and Mr. James, the fortune he made, was made in light of, for which reason, today he would go to prison, which is inside trading. That is to say, he took information from the American government, which he was going to use on certain things and with that he dealt. It's like the movie Wall Street, Gordon Gekko was a baby at the breast next to James. So, it's not another myth that he was a great investor either, the guy was playing with qualified information. I mean, it didn't occur to anyone, he did. Therefore, later came all the regulations that exist on Wall Street in this regard. So it also seems quite comical that we have to change the crawling peg, when the entire future curve is aligned with monetary policy.

And in all this context, given the determination that we have with the issue of the zero deficit policy, I usually say that it has tied me to the zero deficit policy, like Ulysses to the mainmast, with the advantage that I have my ministers who shoot the sirens. With which, we are going or we are going well.

So after receiving an economy that had a country risk of 2,900 points, today it is already reaching 2,400. Analysts are seeing that we are on our way to 1,000. That is not minor because it opens up the possibilities for us to enter the capital market. They have raised our credit rating, the bonds that cost $18 dollars now cost $54 dollars and Argentine assets have appreciated very strongly. When you see the GDP data today, it is true that in the first quarter it fell, about four and a half, but it is also true that analysts expected it to fall by six. That is to say, we are making a much stronger adjustment than analysts expected and we are falling less. And that also encourages the idea of ​​a “V” exit. A very interesting piece of information appeared from the consulting firm Orlando Ferreres, and that is that the seasonally adjusted test from February tested positive, that is, a little bit. Therefore, we are not excited about that number, but at least it seems that we are going to be finding the bottom at some point in time and many analysts are already talking about a “V” recovery, which is understandable if one Look at the rate at which COUNTRY risk is falling.

At the same time we are working on what has to do with the exit of the stocks and as soon as we manage to finish cleaning up the balance sheet of the Central Bank, when we can get rid of all the remunerated liabilities and when this disastrous thing of remunerating liabilities ends, that What it will imply is that the issuance of money for remunerated liabilities will be stopped. At the same time, another thing that we are going to do and that we are working on is a reform of the financial system to go to a system integrated with the capital market and build a bank that is anti-run. The truth is that today that would not be a problem, because basically credit to the non-financial private sector is four points of GDP, that is, we do not have a financial system, there is no financial system. Therefore, it is interesting that we begin to build a financial system that does not need a lender of last resort. So if this reform includes integrating the format of the banks with a format of the capital market so that we can go to a free banking system, and that will allow us that when we have that reform we can open the financial system, that we can lift the stocks, and in that context also mandate the law of non-monetary issuance, where basically we consider that seigniorage is a crime, it is theft, it is a forgery, it is a scam. Issuing money is a scam. And in that sense, if money were to be issued, the president of the Central Bank, the board of directors, the president of the Nation, the Minister of Economy and deputies and senators who have approved budgets with a fiscal deficit would go to prison. Obviously you are going to tell me: “But this is Argentina,” and surely later another criminal will come and change things and throw out that law. But we are going to give it a category of imprescriptible, as if it were a crime against humanity. Therefore, yes, a criminal may come and change these conditions and return to the old ways of issuing money, but it may be that later another person will come and say “you are a criminal, you did that,” and put them in prison. Therefore, we are going to find a solution of these characteristics so that this scam that is the monetary issue ends in Argentina.

And obviously, as we continue to advance in this system of free banking, of deep capital markets that move towards a complete system, and we have stopped the issuance for rediscounts, the issuance for remunerated liabilities, the issuance to finance the treasury, we directly have a type of free exchange, with a fixed amount of money, and if it is necessary to enter more money from the system, it will be entered by the agents themselves. For example, they open the mattress and start making transactions. Therefore, the monetization of the economy will be provided by the individuals themselves with the currencies they want to trade.

Currency competition has a very interesting consequence and that is that, for example, if you are in the oil sector like Alejandro, you can make transactions with your oil peers in WTI or if you are in the gas business you can make transactions with others in BTU, if they are in the rural sector they can make transactions with others with soybeans in Chicago and so on. Each one will have their own currency. This is equivalent to having a basket of currencies where the weights are determined endogenously by the people, instead of determined by a bureaucrat by hand, which is always going to be done wrong and if it were done well it would have to be this result and that is why it is done. agents do, so we don't need a bureaucrat sticking his finger anywhere, because in reality they already know where the finger ends and more than the finger ends up being the arm where they stick. If they had a Vaseline business I would be happier celebrating.

So, once we achieve this we will be able to open the trap. We, today, in some sense, have excess demand in the Foreign Exchange Market and excess supply in the rest of the economy, which means low bond prices, high interest rates, high COUNTRY risk; It means access to supply in the goods market, with which there is a deterioration in the level of economic activity. In fact, we have a GDP per capita 15% lower than in 2011, we have the same number of jobs in the private sector as in 2011. And that implies that the number of poor and indigent people increases and, therefore, there is pressure social to give it support. Naturally, the moment one closes that excess demand in the Foreign Exchange Market, all other types of supply will be closed. Which will imply that the price of bonds will rise, that the interest rate will fall, that the imbalance in the goods market will be closed, with economic expansion, with improvements in real wages, with improvements in employment, with a drop in the number of poor and indigent. And there, the economy is going to begin to rebound, and despite the filthy institutions we have, the economy is very decapitalized as a result of more than 20 years of populism. Even so, we can grow and generate genuine economic growth without inflation. And we can do all this despite politics, that is, despite all the sticks in the wheel, despite all the crap they do to us.

But you know what? There is something that is wonderful, something that the analog red circle does not see either. All the DNUs that were sent in Argentina were all intended to generate regulations, that is, take away market freedom, make markets more concentrated, give business to cronies, enormous jobs and, above all, curtailment of individual freedoms. At this point, remember what this group of criminals did in the pandemic and, yet, there were people applauding them for locking us up. No one there opposed that whole cataract from DNU.

Our DNU is the first in history that restores individual freedoms, makes markets more competitive. Look at the wonderful thing about rentals, you couldn't get a property. The number of rental properties doubled, prices in real terms fell, and the real estate market expanded strongly during the month of February. Look at the interesting things achieved by the DNU, which is still in force, but which had a setback in the Senate which, by the way, is not so bad because if we only have seven senators and we had 25 votes, it is not so bad. it went for us, there is a better one, there are people who are betting on change. But obviously, since this also concerns political jobs, obviously since politicians do not want to give up their jobs, they do not want to lose their privileges, they do not want to give up anything, they prefer to plunge Argentines into misery in order to maintain their caste privileges, That's why they overturned the DNU. And this is very interesting, because if I had told you that in two months, three months that we would be able to organize the Argentine ideological spectrum, you would have told me that I was crazy. And after what happened with the Bases Law and what happened with the DNU, it is wonderful in terms of the principle of revelation, they left all their fingers dirty. On the one hand, the orcs, who are orcs, cannot expect anything other than orcish behavior, because they are orcs. There are people who truly want change, and there are criminal frauds who say they want change, but in reality they disguised themselves as wanting change, but they are as criminal as the orcs, but they are ashamed to be with the orcs. So, they hide within the shapes and all those issues, but deep down they are the same crap as the orcs. That was very interesting because it was evident, both the voting in deputies, in the articles in particular, and in the Senate the other day, made it evident. Today you have to make it clear with the vote who are those who are against progress, who are the criminals, who are those who are in favor of work and theft, and who are against giving freedom back to the people, that they are against there being a competitive market, and that they are against giving up jobs so that people can get their money back. So, it's wonderful, because in three months we ended up taking the cover off these criminals. And that is also very interesting, because it is not going to be free in the midterm election, they are going to pay with the votes, those criminals are going to be left out. And that will allow us to make a much better election in the midterm elections than the one we made last year. That is interesting, because there we are going to have another composition of Congress and all the reforms that we have not been able to introduce now, we are going to introduce them at that time, starting on December 11, 2025. And,In addition, we are going to introduce the 3,000 reforms that are pending and that we cannot get out of this group of criminals, who are the prevention machine, who want the status quo to continue, where you pay the bill and they benefit.

Therefore, I am very optimistic about the future, because we are achieving a lot of things, despite politics, and people are seeing that. It is very interesting because, even though we are facing the largest adjustment in the history of humanity, 70% of Argentines recognize that they are worse off... There are very important data, the first data is that when we assume only 20% of Argentines believed that a year from now they would be better, but in January that number rose to 30, in February it rose to 42, and today the number is 50%. That is to say, even though we are worse at the present, 50% of Argentines are convinced that from now on we are going to be better, not only that, 70% of Argentines are convinced that we are going to defeat inflation. , where 50 points of them believe that we are going to do it the first year and 20 believe that we are going to do it in the second year. When you look at what is happening in terms of a word that represents the feeling of Argentines, the word that appears most strongly and fundamentally dominates is “Hope.” YES people have “Hope”, people are seeing that we are going to get out. That is to say, there is light at the end of the road and people are seeing it, even though they are having a hard time today, they realized that populism leads nowhere, they realized that the solution is by embracing the ideas of Freedom and that is not minor.

If today the elections were in a runoff, we would be getting 58%, that is, it would be 58, 42. Instead of +2, we are +16, and when you ask that group: Who would you vote for in the first round? I would vote for La Libertad Avanza with 48%, that is, we improved the vote flow by 60%, compared to what we obtained. That means that with that alone we would win in the first round because the second person in intention to vote is Mrs. Cristina Fernández Kirchner with 20. But not only that, there are 10 points, which if we go for the most rudimentary case, half and half, 48 and 5 = 53. Therefore, what I want to tell you is that there is hope. Do you know why there is hope? Because people woke up, they decided to stop being lambs And they decided, now, to be Lions. Therefore, there is hope because Argentines are embracing the ideas of freedom, not only am I going to tell them that we are going to be better, they already know that we are going to be better. Therefore, Argentina does have a future, because that future is liberal. Thanks a lot.
