Speech by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the great Vox event “Viva 24”, in Vistalegre Madrid, Spain

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50498-discurso-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-gran-acto-de-vox-viva-24-en-vistalegre-madrid-espana

Sunday May 19, 2024

Speech by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the great Vox event “Viva 24”, in Vistalegre Madrid, Spain.

To begin, I want to thank the organizers of Viva Vox and my dear friend, Santiago Abascal, for inviting me to be here with you today. On Friday, presenting my book “The Way of the Libertarian,” I said that when I started with all this adventure of publicly fighting the cultural battle, I was more alone than Adam on Mother's Day and in that context one of the few who hugged me and put up with me. When everyone turned their back on me it was dear Santiago, so I want to start here today by publicly thanking him before you. Thank you Santiago.

Look, Santiago, how far we have come and how much we have ahead of us. I have been preaching my invention of the capitalist system in audiences where the majority of those listening do not always share what I say, sometimes even preaching in front of people who hate it because they feel targeted by my criticism, as happened, for example, at the Davos Forum.

So I must say that, just like when I spoke at the Milken Institute in Los Angeles, it is pleasant today to be among friends. It is comforting to be in front of an audience that shares our ideas and that is part of the enormous task of fighting the cultural battle, against those who want to impose on us a vision of the world that is not only immoral, but is contrary to the values ​​that made us great. West. It's true that two years is nothing, but some things have happened since I was last here with you. When I appeared here, 2 years ago, I was just a national deputy who, accompanied only by the person who now holds the position of vice president of the Nation, faced the entire political system in Argentina defending the ideas of Freedom. I want to tell you that although I now have a slightly more complicated and somewhat more particular job, I have never left aside, nor will I in the future, my historical task which is to be a humble disseminator of the ideas of freedom. Because I am convinced that today more than ever that these ideas and values ​​that brought the human species to the top are in danger and need to be defended from the siege of the damned and carcinogenic socialism. Socialism, that ideology that is painted with an altruistic patina that, basically, hides the worst of the human being, which is envy, hatred, resentment, unequal treatment before the law and if necessary, murder, because Never forget that the damn socialists murdered 150 million human beings.

Recently in the conference I gave at the Milken Institute I said that, in some sense, we Argentines are prophets of an apocalyptic future that we have already experienced, but that the rest of the West still has ahead of us. Because if you look at Argentine history of the last two centuries you will see a tragedy in two parts: rise and fall. A tragedy that is testimony to what can happen when the ideas of freedom are replaced by any type of collectivist experiment. In the second half of the 19th century, the Argentine leadership engraved in stone the basic principles of liberalism, which are the defense of life, liberty and private property, and as a result we saw the strongest economic growth process in our history, in fact. Argentina was growing more than the equivalent of Chinese rates at this time. In just 35 years we became a world power. We were the first nation in human history to eradicate illiteracy, we had a total gross domestic product greater than the sum of Brazil, Mexico, Paraguay and Peru combined, we were the first world power in terms of GDP per capita. We, a peripheral country that the rest of the world barely knew, were the Mecca of the West and received millions and millions of immigrants who dreamed in Argentina of the possibility of a better life, most of them Spaniards, that is where our eternal brotherhood lies. among our people.

But, at some point in the first half of the 19th century, the political leadership fell in love with the State, abandoned the ideas of freedom and replaced them with the doctrine of social justice, which directly attacks the freedom and property of the individual. There began the century of Argentine humiliation, 100 years of decadence in which all the basic rules of the economy were broken, time and again, to support the politicians' desire to spend what we do not have. Under the delirious pretext that where there is a need, a right is born, Argentina lived permanently with a fiscal deficit, with permanent growth in public spending and a situation that had to be financed. First of all, immoral politicians finance them with debt, which is nothing more or less than passing on the present holiday to our children, our grandchildren and future generations. Naturally, when the financing runs out, they turn to the ticket printing machine and so, basically, Argentina, for example, has removed 13 zeros from the currency, it has had two hyperinflations without war, today we could remove three more zeros from the currency and they have made a real mess with the inflation tax, stealing from us all the time. And when they have no other alternative, they directly raise explicit taxes, making the country truly stop being competitive. As a result of these measures, we saw how our citizens began to systematically become poorer, falling to 140th place in the world in the ranking of GDP per capita, having multiplied poverty by 10 times in the last 50 years. And not only that, Argentina, which is a country that produces food for 400 million human beings and has a fiscal pressure in the agricultural sector of 70%, that is, the damned State keeps the food for 280 million human beings already. Five million Argentines lack food. Enough of socialism, enough of hunger, enough of misery!

For this reason, it is when I look at Europe today and also at the United States and I see, slowly, how small signs of the tragic path that Argentina sadly took are appearing. On the other side of history, while socialism destroyed Argentina, Free Market capitalism, literally, saved the world. It remains to look at the global economic history of the last 250 years and, in particular, the last 100 years to demonstrate this. Until approximately the year 1800, the world's GDP per capita practically remained constant, but starting in the 19th century and following the Industrial Revolution, GDP per capita not only increased, but did so exponentially, multiplying by more than 20 times and generating an explosion of wealth that lifted 90% of the world's population out of poverty, even when the population multiplied eight times. Let the damn abortionists deal with that fact.

What does this mean? that the more capitalism advanced, the wealth increased at greater and greater speed. That is why while in the 19th century the growth rate of global GDP per capita was on average 0.6% annually compounded, in the period between 1950 and 2000, we see that the growth rate was 2.1% annually. compound and if corrected for the underestimation of the statistics, we would be above the 3 annual compound. In other words, free enterprise capitalism has been a panacea for the West, which is why it is no coincidence that those countries that are free grow twice as much as repressed countries and have a GDP per capita 12 times greater than what a country has. repressed. Therefore, not only that, but also, those countries that are poor, those that are poor in the Free Market capitalist countries, have a higher average income in the lowest decile of 15 times higher and 90% of the The population of those repressed countries lives below what someone poor would live in a capitalist country.

This shows, despite the cries of the left, that free markets create prosperity for all, not just some. There is no case of a country in the entire history of humanity that has embraced the ideas of freedom, that has not experienced an explosion of growth and prosperity for all. On the contrary, socialism whenever it has been attempted, not only in Argentina, but throughout the world, has been an economic failure, it has been a social failure, a cultural failure and on many occasions a failure imposed on piles and piles of bodies and names.

This point is central to achieving a complete understanding of the tragedy that socialism means. Given that socialism is an ideology that goes directly against human nature, it necessarily leads to slavery or death, there is no other possible destiny, opening the door to socialism is inviting death. But while all this is obvious, today it is more important than ever to point it out, because in recent decades global elites, unfortunately, have been captivated by socialist siren songs. Through ideas, discourses and values ​​that have crept into the common sense of our societies, promoted by supranational organizations, by NGOs, by educational institutions and by the entertainment industry and the media; discourse that say that capitalism is bad because it is individualistic and that collectivism is good because it is altruistic and, therefore, they fight for social justice. That persecute the private sector so that it submits to supposed moral commandments on issues such as gender, racial issues or environmental issues, which often end up directly attacking the freedom and capacity of companies to generate wealth, but also the human life.

It seems that they do not understand that social justice is always unfair, because it implies theft, because it implies unequal treatment before the law and that every attempt by politicians to play nice ends up harming the generation of wealth and consequently harming the whole. of the society. They also do not realize or do not seem to care that the cost of sustaining this well-thinking pantomime of the progressives is to subvert all the values ​​that made Western civilization the spearhead of the history of human progress. Because, deep down, they are being guided by the lowest human passions, such as envy, hatred and resentment, which cloud their thinking and blind them. What's more, it blinds them so much, to the point that they live projecting their miseries onto others.

Therefore, to all those who think they are saving the world with the present State, with high taxes, with gender quotas and punishing employers, I say: Do you know what is best for workers? That they freely agree to a contract with their employers. Do you know what is best for women? Stop treating them as victims who need special care. I wonder: Do socialists consider women as inferior beings to be granting them privileges? I ask the socialists, or is it not enough to be equal before the law? Do you know what is best for the planet? Let the market find, as it has always done, the best solutions. Do you know what is best for children? A father and mother who knows them much better than any bureaucrat. And do you know how this is achieved? Removing the parasitic State from people's lives and letting citizens be free. Letting them associate freely, choose what to produce, who to employ, where to study, who to sell to, what to buy and what to do with the fruit of their own labor. In short, the world is saved not by running behind a guilty agenda of a couple of bureaucrats, but by shrinking the State to magnify society.

We must destroy that parasitic idea that has been learned in the West that says that the task of the State, that is, of the bureaucrat, is to control every aspect of the citizens' lives. That idea that politicians should take care of people from the cradle to the grave. This has never been the task of the State, the task of the State, if it exists, is to defend the life, liberty and private property of individuals. But the global elites do not realize how destructive it can be to implement the ideas of socialism, because they have it too far away, they do not know what type of society and country it can produce, and what kind of people are screwed into power and at what levels. of abuse it can generate. I mean, even if he has the corrupt woman, he gets dirty and takes five days to think about it.

That is why it is my turn to show you how sinister and disastrous socialism is. Because we have lived it firsthand, we suffer it every day, because Argentina is a country infected with socialism decades ago, or perhaps I should say, era. Socialism leads to poverty and death, anyone who says otherwise is ignorant or a liar. And since socialism leads to death, we can never, ever, give in, in anything, we cannot let left-handed people run a millimeter, not even when it seems that they are right, because they never are. Because when we leave a crack open, they will attack us from a better position for them. They take advantage of the weakest among us, of those who have not earned the abundance they enjoy, of those who have inherited it without knowing the sacrifice it has involved, of those who know they are lacking, they are eaten away by guilt and They want to use us all to solve their own problems. But we are not weak, we have earned what we have, we really believe what we say, it has cost us blood and sweat to get to where we have arrived and no one or anyone is going to stand in our way. It doesn't matter what they do, it doesn't matter what they say, or how they attack us, that's why I tell you, I don't give a damn what lefties think. Ultimately, there is nothing they can do to alter the course of events.

In light of the things I usually say, the discussions I usually get into, I often receive criticism from different actors in the establishment and, in particular, from those in charge of journalism. I mean, with this having taken away the official guideline from the media, it seems that I am looking for a job in the underground, and I am going to cut him to the red... But don't worry, that one is left-handed too, so, I'm not interested in that business . They tell me: “but you are now a head of state, how are you going to be making these comments, how are you going to talk like that about your political adversaries, how are you going to talk like that about other leaders like two years ago, or about a president?” ”, as I have to be now. In any case, now that I am president, my responsibility for fighting the cultural battle is even greater, because what I do and say has a greater effect. And fighting the cultural battle is not only morally correct, but it is also necessary from a government point of view, it is necessary for the success of any liberal or libertarian government program, so that the policies they implement are durable and for that in the future it will be the citizens themselves who defend their freedom and not allow themselves to be trampled again by the socialists. Because, furthermore, it is important to raise your voice, because our opponents always have an advantage. Because they have their people involved in all levels of the State, they have the strength of unions and social organizations, they have prebendary businessmen who live off the State and finance them, they have supranational organizations, non-governmental organizations, the media. communication and the entertainment industry, and in my case, in my country, even the control over football.

In that sense, it must be recognized that they have done a formidable job, in terms of what Antonio Gramsci would call “the construction of a true global hegemony.” If all of us who believe in life, liberty and property do nothing, we are doomed. If all of us who believe in the values ​​that made the West the most prosperous civilization in history do nothing, we are doomed. Therefore, all of us who are here, Spanish and Argentine citizens, presidents, thinkers, businessmen, all those who believe in freedom, must stand up and say enough is enough! Enough with the hatred, resentment and envy that socialism implies. Enough with the West's self-flagellation and guilt. Enough with the pretense of living in a glass world, without anyone being able to feel offended. Enough of the State's interference in each and every aspect of our lives, let's go back to defending the values ​​that made the West great. Let's go back to defending life, liberty and property.

We are already five months after I assumed office as President of the Argentine Republic, on December 10, and I can proudly say that we are strictly fulfilling the promise we made to the Argentines. We have an economy on the verge of hyperinflation, with 15 points of consolidated fiscal deficit, with uncontrolled issuance after having issued money for 13 points of GDP one year, with prices repressed to ridiculous levels and with very high interest rates and, despite all that, we are turning it around. With an enormous effort on the part of all Argentines, but we are slowly turning it around. We have systematically resurrected inflation, month after month, until we achieved monthly single-digit inflation. We have lowered the interest rate without triggering inflation and without triggering the exchange rate. We are making the largest and most abrupt adjustment in human history and to the horror of all leftists, society continues to support us with the same condition as on December 10.

For this reason, the local and international left cries, because everything that they summarize as impossible, we do. Because everything that they have broken with their economic shamanism, we are amending with work and with the correct ideas and values; because all the ideas, values ​​and theories that they preach in my country have already failed. And everything they are afraid of is starting to succeed. And also because we are showing the world that, even in the worst adversity, even carrying the worst economic legacy in the history of the country, even being the government with the least institutional power in history and even with all the politics , the media and the prebendary businessmen against it, those of us who wield the truth in one fist and conviction in the other can persevere and emerge triumphant.

Because, sooner or later, truth always prevails over lies, freedom always prevails over oppression, life always prevails over death, and good always triumphs over evil. For all this, I want to tell you that I am an optimist. More and more people in the world are rebelling against the damned socialist mandate and they do so because unlike socialists, we trust citizens, we think we should treat them like children in kindergarten. We trust in their creativity, in their ability to solve problems on their own, in their judgment to raise their children in freedom within the family, we trust in the ability of men and women to forge their own destiny and that this results for greater benefit to society as a whole. And this trust that we have in the common citizen sooner or later returns, because to obtain trust you have to give trust, and we have entered into a pact of truth with society, because, as I always say: it is preferable to tell an uncomfortable truth instead of a comfortable lie.

For all this, I want to commit to all of you and tell you that I will not fail you. I am going to lead by example and show the world that a government with our ideas can be successful and the feats that our government accomplishes in Argentina will be testimony and preaching of the capitalist paradigm of free enterprise. But they will not be a miracle, but rather the necessary consequence of the exercise of correct ideas, because freedom is the only possible path to prosperity. That's why I tell you, take heart in this quest to save the West from decadence, because the West still has time to choose if it wants to persist on the path of failure or if it wants to return to the path of freedom.

Finally I want to leave you a phrase from one of the greatest thinkers of the 20th century, who was Ludwig Von Mises, and who also demonstrated the impossibility of socialism already in 1922, with his famous treatise “Socialism”. Mises maintained that socialism is an alternative to capitalism like potassium cyanide is an alternative to water. And since Mises was a person with great vision and understood what the challenge was about, he made a phrase from Virgil his go-to phrase, a phrase in Latin that says: “Tu ne cede malis, sed contra audentior ito.” What does it mean do not give in to evil, but face it with greater boldness. Let's not give in to socialism, we are going to face it with greater courage.

Naturally, it seems like a titanic task, it seems that we are few, but we have nothing to fear because victory on the battlefield does not depend on the number of soldiers, but on the forces that come from heaven. Long live fucking freedom! Long live fucking freedom! Long live fucking freedom! Thank you so much. Thank you Santiago. Thanks Vox. Thank you all, thank you, thank you very much.
