Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the 2024 Edition of EXPOFI, in La Rural, Palermo

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50537-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-la-edicion-2024-de-expofi-en-la-rural-palermo

Wednesday June 12, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the 2024 Edition of EXPOFI, in La Rural, Palermo

Good morning. Thank you very much, Esteban, for inviting me again. The previous time I had to come as a candidate, fortunately we were successful and I returned as president. So I couldn't fail to keep my word, so here I am again. Thank you very much to all.

Given that the government has been in office for 6 months, it seems appropriate to do a sort of review of what we received and what we did and what we are aiming for. Specifically, we - at the time of coming to power - without a doubt received what was the characterization of the most important crisis in Argentine history. We had a monetary imbalance that was at least twice that of before the Rodrigazo. This is interesting because when the Rodrigazo broke out, which was a crisis with similar characteristics - in monetary terms - to that of '59, it implied a six-fold increase in the inflation rate. Therefore, at the rate at which the inflation rate was already going, in Argentina, above 200, we were going to be putting inflation rates - solely for that effect - at levels of 1500. At the same time, we had an imbalance - in the Central Bank - which was worse than the one we had, in 1989, at the beginning of 1989, prior to Alfonsín's hyperinflation; with the aggravating factor that the previous government had not only left three times the relationship of liabilities remunerated on the basis, apart from a series of contingent instruments, the famous Puts, which at least would have implied - in the space of one day - multiplying for four or five times the amount of money.

In fact, the big bet of the previous government was that we, taking for granted our libertarian profile, would want to free everything, on the first day, that was going to generate - clearly - a monstrous hyperinflation given that the social indicators were worse than those of 2001, It would have led to a brutal crisis and, by January, they returned to power with all the liquefaction and adjustment done the hard way. Faced with that situation, the flip side was that we had twin deficits for the equivalent of 17 points of GDP; Everyone who has studied early crisis indicators knows that 4 points is a yellow alert; 8 is a red alert before hitting yourself hard, so 17 was a pretty intimidating number, to say the least. Of those 17 points, 15 points corresponded to the National State, where of those 15.5 were generated from the Treasury and 10 from the Central Bank.

And, at the same time, we had not only the problem of remunerated liabilities, in terms of monetary base, which I just mentioned, but we also had the problem of the SIRA, which was 50,000 million dollars and We also had trapped dividends. In other words, not only did we have a flow problem, but we also had a brutal stock problem. This is not minor, because the materialization of the stock, from one day to the next, becomes an insurmountable flow and the consequences that a movement of the stocks, of these characteristics, can have on the exchange rate, could lead to a fall. still much deeper demand for money in a context where it was multiplying enormously, with which we would have had to face what was a true disaster.

But not only that, we also had financing problems because we had internal debt, in pesos, for the equivalent of 90 billion dollars; We had external debt maturing, for the equivalent of 25 billion dollars, where a large part was with multilateral organizations, but we had the agreement with the Monetary Fund that had fallen and that was also something interesting because when you have a situation of recurring default and, on the sidelines of this recurring non-compliance, one wants to renegotiate the goals, in that sense, in general, these reviews usually take about three months. And in our case it was reviewed and approved, in one weekend. This is interesting because the same people who criticize - now - said, at that time, that the program was inconsistent, not only that it was not inconsistent, but that it has proven to be truly successful and now we are going to review it.

And, at the same time, the situation - in terms of financing - was also quite complex, because in fact the country risk was around 2,900 basis points and, in addition, we had an external sector problem. Basically, the previous government left us negative international reserves, for the equivalent of 11.5 billion dollars and a gap of 200%. On the other hand, in terms of activity, the beginning of 2023 had started with a decline and, towards the second part of the year, the government began to carry out a fiscal and monetary policy, which was truly delirious. More or less so that they have an order of magnitude, the previous government issued 28 points of GDP to finance the deficit. Of those 28 points, 13 were during the last year. I mean, it was something truly insane, and that also shows the size of the bomb they left behind.

But in addition, all of this occurred in a context of depressed prices, that is, there was strong repression in the price system and all controls expired in November, after the elections, and in December the prices - in the first week of December - were falling. growing at an annual rate of 3700% and, in the second week, it accelerated to 7500. The reality is that this was getting worse because in fact, when one takes wholesale inflation, for the month of December it is 54%. This is interesting to note because wholesale inflation is always ahead of retail inflation and a monthly inflation of 54% annualized is 17,000 and the reality is that the data, for the month of April, in wholesalers had been 3.4%, that is, that annualized 50%. So it is quite funny that they say that there is no economic program when inflation fell, from a rate of 17,000% annually to 50%, and that is quite a lot. I know that they are consultants who are paid, but it doesn't come down out of nowhere, it's not an act of magic to lower it.

And that, basically, is due to a tough stabilization program, which we carry out and it is important to understand the logic of a stabilization plan. I understand that we have had years and years of brutal interventionist brainwashing and, therefore, we tend to think of stabilization programs as a matter of defining a lot of policy issues, and sectors, and all those things. But in reality a stabilization program has three elements: it has a fiscal leg; It has a monetary leg and an external leg. In that sense, what had to do with the fiscal leg, what we had to do was attack the deficit, knowing that the biggest problem was not in the Treasury, but, in addition, it was in the Central Bank, which It was double. And, in that sense, I took - at least in discursive terms - the discussion between shock and gradualism, and the reality is that I was always on the side of shock and I was hardly going to change, when I was in command of this ship.

And I didn't do it, and I have an explanation, because the shock programs, in Argentina, including the one from '59, were all successful and all the gradualist programs ended badly. So, the first argument was empirical in nature. The second argument is that to do gradualism I need financing and the truth is that with the conditions that Argentina had, there was no chance of it having financing. Therefore, even if I had wanted to do something else, I couldn't have done it either, but I still wasn't going to do it because I don't believe in gradualism. For me, gradualism is only a mechanism so that the adjustment on the criminals of politics is slower, choosing gradualism is choosing that the one that adjusts strongly is the private sector and the criminals of politics continue partying, which also when it arrives The moment you really have to adjust you don't end up adjusting either.

Therefore, there was no chance of it being any other way and in that sense we set ourselves the goal of zero deficit. There it is also interesting because the goal of zero deficit was for all of 2024 and the truth is that we faced the adjustment with so much courage, with so much strength, since we reduced the ministries by half; We eliminated transfers to the provinces - we practically eliminated them completely - we eliminated public works; We also eliminated a lot of political contracts; we made a strong fiscal adjustment. We also - temporarily - put in place the COUNTRY Tax, which - if the Bases Law comes out - we will lower it and then eliminate it. And, furthermore, we were clear that the adjustment was going to have a strong social impact. That is, when you generate an increase in savings, as a result of the adjustment, the flip side is that for it to not be recessive you would have to have an increase in investment.

The reality is that, with Argentina's reputation, it would be difficult, from one day to the next, to generate credibility enough for the investment to take off. Even so, we sent a program of structural reforms to Congress, which is the Base Law, and, in addition, we sent a DNU, which told us that the DNU was unconstitutional and that Congress was operating, and the reality is that we already see , since they have still been discussing the Base Law for six months. Now it's interesting because that would have made the adjustment less painful, but politics doesn't care about that, what politics cares about the least is people. The only thing that matters to politics is doing business with people and that is what we came to change and that is what makes them so violent. Because it is not that all these things that we are achieving, we achieve them without politics accompanying us. That is, we achieved them, despite the politics.

And, they also told us that it was impossible. There are some who go around saying that there is no plan, that the worst has not happened and all that antics. It must be that the dye is burning his brain. It is interesting because it said that it could not adjust more than 1 point of GDP. So, I would have liked to know how I was going to finance it and what I was going to do - within the Central Bank - because I didn't have any plan for the Central Bank. That said, we believed we were going to achieve it in a year, and - incredibly - we achieved it in the first month. That is, by the month of January we had achieved a financial surplus. So, what they began to criticize was that it was only something temporary that we had achieved. in January.

And, then, there they started with the fact that it was a blender, a lot of blender and scissors. It happens that the scissors end up being 90% of the adjustment and the blender only 10%. So they lied there too. In other words, how did they achieve something that they couldn't, they told you it was impossible to achieve, then they began to question the quality of the fit, and the reality is that 90% is a chainsaw and 10% is just a blender. Not only that, but also, we were not going to be able to sustain it and in February, back in February, we had a financial surplus, and we were not going to be able to sustain it, in March, and in March we had a financial surplus again, and we did it again. have, in April, and we had it again, in May, and when you adjust the seasonality, for the month of June, and stay, with the first semester, we are going to end up with a large financial surplus. That is, the zero deficit is not negotiated in any way. That is to say, they are going to have to take me out dead, de la Rosada, to manage to break the fiscal deficit.

Not only that, but they also questioned us about the social issue and the reality is that - in terms of AUH - we have the highest AUH level in history. What's more, we also multiply very strongly the issue of the Alimentar Card; the 1000 Days plan. And, in addition, we provided school assistance, not only in terms of supplies - which was a very successful program, due to the number of people who received it - but also for those middle class families, who had problems covering the fee, We also provided financing for that. That is not a minor issue because faced with the problem that the family's income implied, the fact of having to change the children from school, and the shock on the children is so strong that it seemed to us that we had to provide assistance. But as if all this were not enough, in addition, assistance systematically only covered 68% of the basket and, today, it covers 120%. So the assistance is working.

But, in addition, there was a very important element, since it was repeatedly said that we had to put an end to the managers of poverty, to the intermediaries. And we made the first strong move, shortly after starting the government, which was a move between the Ministry of Human Capital, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Infrastructure. The first idea was that of Minister Pettovello who, basically, decided to interrupt what was the accountability of what had been done, that is, when you receive a social program you have to, later, report that you were working. At the time, Minister Pettovello was punished very harshly for doing that, but that was instrumental in ending poverty managers.

That was the part they weren't seeing, why? Because although people receive the income - directly - on a card, when they had to go to validate that they had been working, they stole half of it. What he did was take away funding from these criminals. So, with the same money we were giving double the assistance to people. Regardless of what was later uploaded. In parallel - as we knew they were going to complain - we said that whoever cuts does not get paid and that the street could not be cut. Then, also, Dr. Bullrich put together a Security Protocol and we coordinated this with the Ministry of Infrastructure so that, in the different means of transportation, we could communicate and report those who extorted and pressured people to go to the marches. At that time, Belliboni said that he was going to take 50,000 people when in reality he was planning to take 100,000 and something very interesting happened, because only 3,000 ended up going and there were 12,000 troops, that is, there were more troops than people.

And that also allowed us to meet another electoral demand. They asked us to lower inflation and end insecurity. We are lowering inflation and that is where we begin to address the problem of insecurity. Obviously that was not going to be free, since, today, the Ministry of Human Capital is constantly torpedoed by this group of criminals, a group of jets is moving - part of the agenda - and they give way to those criminals who We always said that we had to get them out of the way and now they kick, they make up a lot of lies. We found out that there are ghost canteens, that is, canteens where the money was sent and they did not exist, or canteens that said they had a certain number of people and it happens that, I don't know, they said they served 500 and - when you go - you realize that there was only room for 50. Not only that, but they also quoted for bags of food that they did not want to put on the other side - in terms of DNI - of the people who received that benefit, and when you looked at the bags of food they blended the quality and made the difference. And, furthermore, they were close to the places where the - supposed - supermarket dining rooms were, where they sold these foods. It was a truly sinister business. So, of course, if you take that out of these criminals they are going to kick. The question is, but whose side are they on then? On the side of Minister Pettovello, who is fighting with all the jets, or on the side of the jets? Sometimes Argentina is a very strange country.

Not only that, but also something else that was very important that has to do with the sanitation, the Central Bank, and the situation of the exchange market; We had a deficit in the external accounts, we had been losing reserves a lot, we were negative 11.5 billion dollars, in net terms. In fact, the previous government spent the equivalent of 45 billion dollars from the Central Bank. So, the first decision was… sorry… now I work a lot talking, it's part of the job and part of the job is also that I travel. It's interesting, because I hate traveling and, now, they criticize me because I travel a lot. I'm going to tell you an anecdote, which is funny, I worked in a company, in a group, called Corporación América and my job involved traveling a lot, and I hated having to travel so much because I missed Conan a lot. I mean, now I miss five times and they insult me ​​because I travel, I hate traveling. But, again, Argentina is a very strange country. See if I wouldn't be more comfortable staying in Olivos. But, they also invented that I was not going to go, to Italy, and poor Esteban running after that, if I go, I won't go. Yes, I'm going to Italy, I'm going to the G7 Meeting. So, they invented that I wasn't traveling, then later they invented that - now - I broke up and I'm going. The decision was always that I would go. Argentina is a strange country, especially with the journalists' envelopes, who, obviously, rant all the time because we cut the official guideline. In other words, it was not a campaign promise, it is another promise fulfilled: we cut off the pattern of those criminals. And let them compete, as you all compete. Living off the State, that is not competing, that is living off the State. Obviously the media is going to edit this applause and - surely - they are going to put something that is a boo.

So, one of the very important decisions that had to be made was what did we do with the exchange rate? We knew that we could not release it due to the stock problem, which we had on the Central Bank's balance sheet. So the question was where to put the exchange rate? This was also a very important decision. I remember this decision, because “Toto” Caputo, “Santi” Bausili, Fede Furiase and Martín Gutiérrez were there, we were - at the Hotel Libertador - which is where I lived for three months. But it was great, it was the “El Libertador” Hotel, that is, it couldn't be lighter, and on top of that it was violet. I mean, spontaneous order doesn't fail, guys. Adam Smith is always right, unless the government is involved. But I ask that you not blame the invisible hand, blame the iron claw of the State.

In that sense, the market consensus was that the exchange rate had to be at $600. I love it because those same people who said that we had to take it to $600, in their best scenarios, in terms of inflation, gave them a higher inflation rate than the one we had, and they are the same ones who complained about the exchange rate delay. They lost the argument so scandalously that - thankfully - they didn't mention the problem further, but they continue to rant. That is, it is not my fault that they use bad models and make mistakes. So, in that sense, the other alternative that the economic team had proposed to me was $800, and I said: "no, let's take it to $1000." So, there he tells me: "no, what happens is that we are going to be charging the Country Tax" and what we were thinking of putting, at that time, $800 was correct and was the equivalent of putting it at $1000.

This is not a trivial issue. That was not chosen trivially. Because in that way, it seemed, in some way, to the exchange rate that was in the market. What he was going to do was greatly reduce the excess demand for foreign currency. And by reducing the excess demand for foreign currency, what it was going to do was reduce the excess supply of bonds, with which the bonds had to recover and, therefore, lower the country risk, something that until recently we had managed to break the line of 1200, we were on our way to 1,100, and to break 1,000, but politics appeared and took it to 1,600. But don't worry because this is determined by the condition of intertemporal solvency and back: I am not going to deliver the zero deficit. So sooner or later we are going to break it.

Apart from that, it implied that the fall in activity was smaller and that the loss of employment was smaller and that the falls in real wages were smaller and, therefore, contributed to there being no greater increase, in terms of poor and destitute. And this is interesting because if the initial conditions were worse than those of 2001, making an adjustment for the equivalent of 15 points of GDP, in social terms it had to be a catastrophe and in terms of activity as well. Remember that, in the 2002 crisis, GDP fell 10.9%, but in the second quarter it fell 16. We made a much larger adjustment and, even so, with a much larger adjustment, the fall - of the first quarter - it was 7%. And everything should be flying, in terms of social disaster, and yet it doesn't happen. And on top of that they have the nerve to criticize Pettovello's management because he has a margin of error of 3 in 10,000. You have to be cheeky. They take a medication, self-medicate with a margin of error of 5% and complain about 3 in 10,000. Argentina is a strange country. Or it shows when the envelopes are not filled. That was also a super successful decision that was obviously highly criticized. What was the other side? We bought 17.5 billion dollars. In addition, we recomposed the balance sheet of the Central Bank and put the equity back into positive terms. It is important that they also take into account, because now there are those who begin to warn because they are losing reserves. I'm going to tell you something: if you watch the program, what do we have? It is a kind of crawling peg, that is, deep down, there is a kind of fixing the exchange rate and moving it at a certain rate.

Why do I clarify this? Because if you are controlling the price, the flip side is that you are going to have fluctuations in quantities, so what is going to happen to currencies has to do with seasonality, and the seasonality - of the third quarter - is that Argentina in the third quarter loses reserves. In other words, it is a natural result. In fact, the program that we have in force, with the Fund, estimates that we would have to lose at least 2 billion dollars of reserves, but since we are overfulfilled..., we are overfulfilled in the fiscal goal, in the monetary goal and in the exchange rate goal. So, we have room to lose more than $3 billion. Warning because they will not fail to say: "oops, the program is collapsing, they are losing reserves." No, it's a seasonality problem, guys.

Another issue that was also very important is that the quasi-fiscal had to be lowered. That is, they were 10 points of GDP. And there was also a very very brave decision, on the part of the economic team and the truth is that the management - together of “Toto” Caputo, Pablo Quirno and Santiago Bausili was very important. This is an interesting discussion, given my long-standing orthodoxy, there was no shortage of geese who began to criticize the lack of independence of the Central Bank. This is very good. Now, I don't know if - sometimes - they do it because they are clumsy, or because they are malicious, or both at the same time. It is obvious that the directions were going to be interdependent. What's more, I'm going to tell you something: not only is Caputo present in Cabinet meetings, but Bausili is also present. So why do we do that? Because - in reality - when we received the Central Bank, the Central Bank was bankrupt. And he was bankrupt because the State had put a lot of paperwork in him or who do you think is the largest creditor of the national State? The Central Bank.

In fact, I already mentioned before that the previous government itself took away the Central Bank, defrauded the Argentines - because what it is doing is degrading the support of the pesos that are circulating - for 45,000 million dollars. So, if the State was the one that bankrupted the Central Bank, the logical thing is for the State to rebuild the Central Bank's balance sheet. That is why - at this stage - there is not all the independence that one would like. Because? Because it is the State that bankrupted the Central Bank. Once that is recomposed, we can talk about the independence of the Central Bank. But those same geese are the ones who said in parallel that the assets that the Central Bank had are worth zero, that is, what I am saying is the inconsistency of the arguments.

And in that sense, one of the most interesting things, because there the serial blunders also blundered in a big way, was what to do with the interest rate and the issue of remuneration? So, while conventional theory, so to speak, uses the interest rate to lower inflation, we thought we would lower inflation by lowering the interest rate. It was a very challenging thing. Of course, because we believe that inflation is, always and everywhere, a monetary phenomenon generated by an excess supply of money. Either because supply rises or because demand falls. And that causes the peso to lose purchasing power and all prices expressed in monetary units rise. Understanding that also helps you understand what is happening with the dollar.

Because the dollar is another price of the economy and rises depending on real factors or monetary factors. And you are seeing the exchange rate rise and there is neither a problem of increased supply, nor is there a problem of falling demand. And this is interesting and also has to be internalized, is that we do not have a free exchange market. By not having a free exchange market, you do not buy dollars directly, you buy them indirectly, via bonds. And the problem with bonds is that they are not only used to buy dollars, but, in reality, they are used to trade Argentine debt. And if you have a group of fiscal degenerates voting for crazy projects to break the fiscal balance, what you are doing is that the instrument you use to - indirectly - buy dollars, you are contaminating it. So, just as they try to undermine solvency and make the Country Risk, from being below 1200, jump to 1600, the flip side is that you are corrupting that instrument and you see a higher exchange rate, but it is not due to monetary issues. , but to a group of brute scumbags and criminals who all they want to do is break the fiscal balance to overthrow the government. That is, some destituents.

In that context, for us what had to be done was to arbitrate the rate in dollars, not the rate in pesos. And, in fact, the initial evaluative leap, we had to ensure that devaluation expectations were mapped with our crawling peg and with our inflation hypotheses. And that is happening. And in the middle of all that, as we were stabilizing the economy, Pablo Quirno had an enormous task of rebuilding the curve in pesos. And what is that what he allowed us? He allowed us to withdraw remunerated liabilities from the Central Bank and have them go to where they really always had to be, which was in the Treasury.
Because deep down, what was happening? The previous government made a fiscal deficit, filled it with securities to the Central Bank, took dollars, took pesos, and since those pesos were later left on the street, it took them out paying an interest rate, and thus the Leliqs ball grew. So, in that sense, if we had listened to what the economists said about raising the real interest rate in pesos, today we would have the ratio of paid liabilities to the base at 8 to 1, and not only that, but also, surely we would be talking about the problem of the carry trade, we would also be talking about the problem of the Leliqs balls, and when the hyper would break out. In other words, with which, again: the analyst market screwed up again.

And that is a valid theoretical discussion. From my point of view, wanting to control... Let's see if I ask any of you, what do you think of Moreno controlling prices? They're going to tell me he's a caveman. Now you have to be fatally arrogant, worse than Moreno, to believe that one can control present prices and future prices. And the interest rate is that. It is the relative price of present goods with respect to the future. That is to say that when you control the interest rate, you are trying to control present and future prices. That is, those who talk to him about the rate and this are worse than Moreno, conceptually. And not only that, but they also deny the monetary nature of inflation, but what must be understood is that we must banish this Keynesian aberration that the interest rate is determined in the money market. That is, the interest rate exists because time exists, not because money exists. It exists because time exists, it is an intertemporal coordination mechanism to take consumption from the present to the future, savings; or to take production from the present to the future, investment. And that exists
- regardless - of whether the Central Bank exists or whether money exists. Therefore, tinkering with the interest rate is not healthy anywhere. So, that was also an important bet because we needed to decompress that source of money creation and, honestly, we achieved it because the adjustment today, in the Central Bank, is equivalent to 9 points of GDP and we have 6 in the Treasury. Therefore, we are at 15 points of GDP. We made the largest fiscal adjustment in the history, not only of Argentina, in the history of humanity, and we did it in three months. Nothing is impossible, if you want to achieve it.

And finally, what I also find very interesting is, how much longer does it take to open the trap? To open the trap, what we have to do is finish cleaning the balance sheet of the Central Bank. One of the problems was ending paid liabilities. It is interesting, because today the relationship between remunerated liabilities and monetary base is 1.2. That is, we have 15 trillion pesos of monetary base and 18 trillion pesos of remunerated liabilities. With which we lowered it to 1.2, but there is something that is more interesting, of those 18 billion that we have in paid liabilities, 12 billion are in the hands of the public sector. Of those 12 billion, 7 are in the hands of Banco Nación, where the flip side is that there are Treasury deposits, for 3.5 billion. Therefore, there are 7 billion - of those 12 - that are not a problem. In addition, there are 3 billion that correspond to Banco Provincia, but since the communist dwarf generates a fiscal deficit, it has demanded repayment from Banco Provincia, taking financing from it. Therefore, they are tight on liquidity and cannot touch it. And a part of what remains is in the City and a very small part is in the rest of the provinces. Therefore, we only have 6 billion pesos left to end the problem of paid liabilities and we have had tenders, in which we have received offers for up to 18 billion pesos. It means that the Bausili-Quirno tandem has cornered the paid liabilities. And the other thing we are missing, and this is one of the great perversions that the previous government committed and that the Monetary Fund endorsed, is that since no one wanted to finance the treasury, they preferred financing from the Central Bank, but they needed that not to be seen. , within the balance sheet of the Central Bank. So they financed it with contingent instruments, with Puts that are not even European, that is, they are American, they can be exercised at any time. That represents, in accounting terms only the Put is recorded, so you see there the number is negligible, but if that contingent is executed it becomes four points of the GDP. This is not minor because the monetary base today, in Argentina, is 2.8% of GDP. And if you add the remunerated ones, we are at six points of the GDP. This is important because so far - in the 21st century - that relationship was around 9 or 10% of GDP. It means that, technically, from a monetary point of view, we are ready to exit unless the Puts are executed, which can be executed at any time. Therefore, we are ending the problem of the paid, and when we finish the problem of the Puts, we are going to open the trap, and this story of the trap will end.

So, the reality is that the achievements are undeniable. We have collapsed inflation, if you want to take it in CPI, 25%, the next data will be between 4 and 5%. If we cut it in half, 4 and a half. The nucleus is traveling at levels of 2.2 and a half. I mean, it's working. You are not going to lower the inflation rate by magic. If I take the wholesale, which was the one anticipated, we went from 17,000 to 50. I understand that 50 is aberrant, but 17,000 was much worse. And it also has other characteristics that I think are worth highlighting. In other programs that were very successful, there was previously a mega crisis and much of the work was done by the crisis, liquefying monetary instruments. Then the demand for money was all rebound, it was much easier to stabilize that way.

Not only that, but in many of these cases they violated property rights with compulsive bond placements. Well, why can't we determine time? This too, it seems funny, you have to be too crude or very ill-intentioned; We cannot determine the time because as we are doing all the market operations it depends on the will of the individuals who want to make the different exchanges. Consequently, I cannot determine what day it will be because it depends on the people's decision. It's not about not having a plan, it's about respecting freedom. Communist manga.

Another thing. In other programs there have been price controls, here there are no price controls, they are free. And we are also doing stabilization, with a recomposition of relative prices due to the depressed prices left by the previous government. So, if you wanted to be intellectually honest, you don't have to look at general inflation, you would have to look at what to see how the fight against inflation is going? The core, but of course it's too good there and for all those who anticipated the apocalypse, of course, it doesn't stop them. So, they have to wash away their guilt. Therefore, the anti-inflationary policy is making a real success. In fact, when we came to power 84% of Argentines believed that there was going to be hyperinflation, today that number is less than 20%. From discussing hyperinflation, today we are talking about 30-year mortgage loans and all of this in less than 5 months. Sometimes Argentinians are very strange, especially those who depend on the envelope.

Not only that, I notice that not only journalists depend on the envelope, there are supposed intellectuals who also walk through the channels that respond to envelopes, that is, there are professionals who are part of this assembly, notice. In other words, the caste is not only the thieving politicians, but it is also the prebendary businessmen, it is the overstuffed media and journalists, but there are also the professionals who are complicit in these aberrations. So, another thing that was demanded of us was that we end insecurity and boy are we doing it. Look at the success of the intervention of the National Government in Rosario. Yesterday Minister Bullrich traveled precisely to announce the achievements we had had six months later, how much we had reduced the number of homicides, for example. So they are also successful there. Now that we are killing inflation, then what do they tell us now? Now they are going into hyper-recession.

Well, we knew that we were going to have an impact on activity, but when you start looking at the data, today the diffusion index already exceeds 50% if you look at it for April, with April data. And when they start looking at data from May, the number is still much higher. That is to say, the economy hit a floor and began to emerge. So, everything seems to show that the worst is over, that we have found the floor, and now we begin to discuss whether we are facing the Nike pipe or we are in a “V”. But, back, from saying that we were practically going to destroy everything, now we are discussing what type of recovery. It's wonderful how in six months the whole discussion changed.

So, that has to do with short-term dynamics. As for the long-term dynamics, there is a very important role of what the DNU has been and what the Bases Law is, which are things that contribute to long-term growth. The DNU is still in force, and if the Bases Law comes out..., I remind you that the largest structural reform in history was carried out by Menem, and the Bases Law is five times larger than Menem's reform. And if you add the DNU—which is working—we are in a reform eight times bigger than the largest structural reform in Argentine history, which was Menem's. So, really, what part is “no program”? We sent a thousand reforms to Congress, two hundred were thrown away, five hundred remained in the Bases and the DNU continues walking with three hundred. That is to say, even the reviled DNU - as it is reviled - is three times larger than Menem's reform. And if you think it's not valuable, ask someone who has to rent it. With the phenomenal increase in the number of rental properties and how the cost of rent fell, in real terms. For all those who disbelieve the market economy, I would dedicate Maradona's phrase to them. But be careful, there are two. I refer to one that can be summarized in three letters: LTA. So, to the detractors, I dedicate Maradona's phrase. Now, what is the meaning of these reforms? These reforms - if they pass - would make Argentina climb 90 places in terms of economic freedom.

That means that Argentina would become like countries like Germany, France; and the reality is that it would be a notable advance, but not enough for me. Probably, now they are degrading their rates of economic freedom, but the ideal was to at least resemble the first, that is, Ireland; a country that was the most miserable country in Europe and today has a GDP per capita 50% higher than that of the United States. But the truth is that not even Ireland makes us happy. We have 3,200 more structural reforms to send, and if we do not send them now, we will send them, starting December 11, 2025. That is, we are going to change Argentina, we are going to be a liberal Argentina and we are going to to be the most liberal country in the world and in 40 years we are going to become the first world power. Thanks a lot.


