Open Class by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Hoover Institute, Stanford University, in California, United States

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50520-clase-abierta-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-instituto-hoover-de-la-universidad-de-stanford-en-california-estados-unidos

Wednesday, May 29, 2024

Open Class by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Hoover Institute, Stanford University, in California, United States

Good morning, thank you very much for allowing me to have the honor of being here with you and for being able to convey to you some of the ideas that are very important, in what has to do with the government that we are leading, in Argentina. Naturally, I never stop being an economist and there are issues that become super important, especially what has to do with decision making and in today's talk, I want to focus on one of the topics. , which I develop in my recent book, titled: “Capitalism, socialism and the neoclassical trap”, basically I want to go about what – technically – is called a market failure, which is defined as non-convexity, that is, when there are market structures concentrated and how regulation ends up killing innovation and economic growth.


In that sense, basically, the talk is going to be structured in five parts: the first thing I am going to do is present to you the logic of the conceptual structure of what I am going to be presenting, which are the force elements, which are behind the argumentation and obviously once I do this, I am going to begin to elaborate where I consider that the neoclassical structure has a problem, a failure, an error and that this leads to intervention by the State and that is what ends up killing economic growth.


Basically, the first element of the conceptual structure is an idea from Mises, who pointed out that there were only two economic systems in polar form: on the one hand, free enterprise capitalism and on the other extreme, real socialism. That idea, combined with a very famous work by Hayek, which is the book: “The Road to Serfdom,” which pointed out that every time a State intervention appeared, the result ended up being worse than what was originally there. There is a phrase by Milton Friedman, who spent a lot of time here at the Hoover Institute, that said that, in general, “the correction of a market failure by the State ends up being worse than what we originally had” and basically So, what Hayek pointed out in “The Road to Serfdom” is that every time there was an intervention the result was worse and that this motivated politicians to make new interventions and that not only caused the system to function worse, but also implied increasing weight of the State and that this dynamic ultimately led to socialism and therefore led to misery.

Therefore, it is important to know what the logic and dynamics are, which also lead to this. The first point that has to do with the impossibility of socialism was already raised, in 1922, by Mises, in his book: “Socialism”, and what he said was that socialism was unviable because it could not make economic calculations, that is – specifically - if what one is doing, in a transaction, is exchanging property rights and that is what generates a historical record called prices and that works as a signal transmission mechanism, where the agents coordinate: some will be buyers; others will be sellers and that in the event of divergences there will be adjustments, that is, that the price system is a mechanism for transmitting coordination and adjustment information.

Then, the central event is triggered by the exchange of property rights. Therefore, when the State appears and intervenes, what it is doing is interfering with the right to property. And by interfering with the right of property, the signal begins to have noise and the more intervention there is, the more the right of property is violated and violated, the signal that is transmitted becomes worse and worse and in the limit, in the real socialism and without private property there is no price system and therefore the system collapses. Therefore, in all places - where socialism was applied - it was an economic, social and cultural failure and also because it exacerbated the violence of politicians, they ended up murdering 150 million human beings.


The other issue that is also very important and that falls within these problems, which are generated with the presence of socialism and the intervention of the State, is that, in addition, an incompatibility of incentives is generated because if you are going to be earning money and they strive to make money – as Milton Friedman said, the social responsibility of the businessman is to make money, because if he does he is a hero.
Because basically what he is doing is generating better quality goods, at a better price.


Therefore, it is a creator of well-being. And if you intervene and with the argument of income distribution and inequality and that type of issues, with which socialism attacks, the counterpart is that why am I going to force myself if they are going to take away the fruit of my job? And if I cannot appropriate the fruit of my labor – then – there is no point in working. What's more, in fact, what the presence of socialism does is abort the processes of discovery. And that is not a minor issue; In fact, Hayek pointed out that “the market is a process of discovery.” Hayek put this in terms of the discussion on the distribution of income, when he said that there was no such thing as a cake, but rather that this cake was a cake that was being created, that was being discovered, to the extent that the process market was taking place, but this is very important because what the State's interference ends up doing is breaking the discovery process, which is - basically - innovation. Suppose two individuals, who are not connected, and one generates a product and has a waste. In fact, he would like to get rid of that waste, he would even be willing to pay for someone to take that waste and it happens that - on the other side - there may be another individual who could use that waste as an input and would be willing to pay for it, but then a third individual appears who discovers that a business opportunity, which is to buy from the first and sell to the second, and he does this because he is going to make a profit and if that profit is actually solving the problem for two individuals, with which is wonderful.


Remember that the first one was willing to pay as long as they took him away; and the second was desperate to get it, to be able to do his project. So, this third individual – obviously – is going to do well because he is solving a problem. And if the State appears regulating it, what is going to happen is to interfere in that process, it will abort and if the State advances too much, it will even abort it directly. Therefore, we are all going to live much worse; – probably – the most emblematic case has been, during the pandemic, with masks, if they had left the market freely, there would have been many more masks, more quickly and much cheaper. And the fact that the State got involved all it did was create a big problem.


Naturally, in economies that were not so intervened, it generated damage; In super-intervened economies - such as the case of Argentina - it caused our country to have 130 thousand deaths from COVID, when - if we had done things like a less mediocre country we would have had 30 thousand deaths.

That is to say, that the present State, the state intervention to the Argentines cost us one hundred thousand lives, in one year. That is to say, the intervention of the State, in the end, ends up being a murderous intervention, directly or indirectly. And this is important because also this combination of the market as a process of discovery, plus Lot's principle of appropriation, the one that states that “he who discovers it, keeps it” is the basis of Israel Kirschner's thought, in these topics, where it shows the market as a discovery process and that if you intervene in it - for whatever reason you want -, in general it is usually done for distributional reasons, what you are going to do is damage. I'll put it to you in another case and I won't go deeper into this, but – let's suppose – that I have a general equilibrium system and that - initially - it is in equilibrium and that - suddenly - a problem appears, such as the pandemic and then, you, you have a drastic change in demand. What this drastic change in demand is going to do is that some products are going to be in high demand and their price - naturally in the short term - is going to be very high. Precisely what that price signal is going to do is attract resources, from places where resources do not have to be and go to where people are asking for resources. If you, in order to talk about the distribution of income, profits, inequality and so on, begin to intervene in that market, the only thing you will have is that the market, which had to be destroyed, is destroyed, but the market that should prosper does not prosper and - therefore - in the end we are all much worse off.


Therefore, one of the things that is very important to be clear about is that State intervention is always bad, because it is based on force. And nothing that is based on strength can be good. In fact, liberalism is built on respect, the right to life, liberty, and property, and always as a starting point and basis the principle of non-aggression. And if there is a large and institutionalized aggressor, it is the State. Therefore, the action of the State always causes harm and the more State there is, the worse things are for us.


In this logic, then, where the intervention generates damage, this is tremendous because the neoclassical analytical instrument - even with people who feel libertarian - could end up being functional to socialism if it embraces the models and takes into account what is called market failures, since the definition of market failure supposedly enables intervention. There I want to make some reflections because one of the things that one notices and when one works, in the business world, that is, one uses models.


Because? Because reality is complex, so you use them to simplify, to better understand what you are doing, to focus on the things that are truly important, but when the model does not map to reality, you throw away the model. That is, he does not get angry with reality. If you in a company get angry with reality and stay embraced by the model, you are going to lose your jobs because you are going to be losing a lot of money. So, the first thing you learn when you are in the trenches is to understand that if the model does not map to reality... the model blows up. However, in the neoclassical world when reality does not map to the model we call it market failure.


That is, I would tell you that we are sick with fatal arrogance. And I include myself, I say, because I have taught Microeconomics classes, 25 years of my life and I have read every Microeconomics book that was floating around, I read every new model and paper that came out, but everything changed the day I read Murray Newton Rothbard , in a work called: “Monopoly and competition” and that day my life changed, but then what I want to say is that enabling this concept of market failure and intervention what it does is favor socialism. That is, we end up being functional to socialism. In fact, within the strategy of socialism, of the 21st century, and the way to advance economies and where Latin America is a great example, 21st century socialism has been very successful in Latin America. It has had a lot of presidents. And in Argentina he had four Kirchnerist periods; in Uruguay he has had Pepe Mujica, he has had Tabaré Vázquez; in Chile he has had Lago, Bachelet (twice), Boric; now, in Paraguay, they have had Lugo; In Brazil they have had two Lula governments, one of Dilma Rousseff, then Lula again; They have Petro, in Colombia; They have Castillo, who was in Peru; to López Obrador, in Mexico and I think I am not forgetting any of them and then - in Spain - they have Pedro Sánchez, who is something like a Kirchnerist and I would no longer say that he has good manners because he does not have them. So what we do?

One of the things I am going to do is detect these problems, propose some solutions, but – naturally – I inform you that this is part of my next work, which I am writing, with Dr. Demian Reidel, with whom, in addition, I have the privilege to have you accompany me and be one of my chief advisors, but I am going to be giving some clues as to where I think the solution lies. So the first thing is to define what a market is. I mean, it seems fundamental to me. And sometimes I have the feeling that many economists don't know how to define what a market is. In fact, some reflections that are made confirm to me that they do not know what the market is.


And for me the market, again, is my definition, that is, what I think is - absolutely - under discussion, I do not have any type of problem with that and that is that the market is a process of social cooperation, where They exchange property rights voluntarily. That is, you exchange property rights with another individual, with another agent, voluntarily. And if you do it voluntarily, there can be no error by definition, you are doing it voluntarily. That doesn't mean they assume I go and buy a pair of shoes. And I thought the pair of shoes was going to give me a certain benefit and I don't like it. Well, I was wrong. But I fixed it, but there was no failure in that decision, that is, at that moment when I made the decision, it was what I wanted to do, and I did it voluntarily.


Nobody forced me to make that transaction. And the only agent within the economy that makes these forced transactions is the State. Therefore, the only one that can generate failures within the economy is the State. No, the market. Because in fact the market is ourselves. If when they talk about the market we are the market, we are the market. And then, why do we have to endure someone - fatally arrogant - coming to say that I am making the wrong decision, if they don't even know what I am doing, or why I am doing it.
I mean, surely, if I were to watch the Los Angeles Lakers, surely, a Boston Sail fan, I would say I'm wrong. Why, if I like the Los Angeles Lakers, I saw Magic Johnson play? What were they trying to explain to me, that I'm wrong? I like the colors yellow and purple – aside – purple is the color of Freedom Advances, so I like it even more. This is very interesting, this happens to me regularly in public discussion; Some problem appears and some statist tells me: “There, Milei's world generates these problems.” So I say: okay, let's see, let's see if Milei's world generates these problems, I mean, apart from how powerful I am generating problems myself. So, nothing, I say because there are things that go through my head that I obviously cannot tell because I have a restriction that I am still head of state. So when you hear or when you see that I do something like silence, I ask you to please understand me.

So one of the things that I say is if you believe that there is a market failure in a certain market, the first test that I propose is that you look to see if there is no State intervention because it is not something that is actually what you are perceiving. As a market failure in reality is precisely the damage caused by the action of the State and if you ran to the State in the middle we would surely be better off. So, the first point is to go and check if the State is involved. Now, if you saw, went, checked and the State is not involved, I make a suggestion: go and do the analysis again because it is wrong. I mean, obviously, I mean, I'm a libertarian liberal. Nothing, what I'm going to give is justification for why I say what I say.

So, well, the question is, what motivated all this for me. One of the things that happened to me in Economics, from doing so much microeconomics and general equilibrium, was that when all the modern literature on economic growth appeared, it seemed very friendly to me, now, it was so easy for me to the point that I became to study economic growth and I ended up specializing in economic growth issues with and without money. Something that is also motivated by the fact that the most important economist in Argentine history, Miguel Sidrauski, was a specialist in economic growth with money, so I already had a certain attraction for that and the micro-foundations had been very useful to me. and having also taught mathematical economics classes also helped me. So I started working on these issues.

At one point I was invited to give a talk at the World Economic Forum, not the last time I made such a fuss, when I was a calmer person. They invited me to talk about demographics and growth and when I start looking at this I find the works of Angus Madison and I find something that you all know, I'm going to describe it anyway, but surely all of you know it, which is what which is called the hockey stick. That is, that series that Madison presents with two thousand years of history, that is, from the year zero of the Christian era until the year 2000 and that we find that the GDP per capita during 1800 years was practically constant, that there was only one 40% increase in GDP per capita in what has to do with the sixteenth century, that is, after the discovery of America and the truth is that it was an absolutely monotonous series, a series that if one separated back in the 1800s and He had to choose between staying with Smith or Malthus. It seemed the most reasonable thing to stay with Malthus.

However, after the industrial revolution, GDP per capita increased nearly tenfold and this occurred in a context where the population multiplied by at least seven times.


So, faced with this situation, what one sees is that we are in the presence of increasing returns. We have more people entering the market and yet productivity increases, if the GDP per capita increased, that is, what Malthus predicted did not happen. The presence of increasing returns, that is, what in the terminology of market failure is called “non-convexities” or if you want to put it by another name in which there are concentrated market structures, the problem is that if you pose it in microeconomic terms , that is a supposed market failure, or to put it in some way, monopolies are bad.

So, if monopolies are bad or concentrated market structures are bad, how can we say that it is bad if in the year 1800 more than ninety-five of the population lived below the extreme poverty line and in the year 2000 that number had fallen to less than ten percent. That is to say, as something that generated so much well-being or that generated so much well-being from the perspective of microeconomics, it was wrong.

There are several answers, the easiest, simplest, most obvious answer, one could find it in a very nice book, a small book, a popular book. What's more, the latest edition in Spanish has a prologue from me and my conflict with the book when I met it. That must be why I went into politics because I love conflict.

But, aside from the humor, there is a book by Henry Hazlitt called “Economics in a Lesson” and he starts and says “Well, what is the economics lesson?” He stands between the bad economist and the good economist, he says that the bad economist is the one who focuses only on one market in a single period of time. While the good economist not only looks at one market, but looks at all the others and not only considers the consequences of what happens today, but also considers the implications for the future. That is, he is talking about an economist, the bad economist is an economist who only does partial equilibrium and a single period and the good economist does general intertemporal equilibrium, that would be the definition.

But I say aside from this, the most important thing is how do we track the problem? where is the problem? So now I'm going to spoil the answer for you and then I'm going to give the explanations. From my point of view, the origin of the problem is in the interpretation of the invisible hand, of the idea of ​​the invisible hand under Pareto logic that makes the invisible hand incompatible with the idea of ​​the pin factory, that is, increasing returns and when one advances in the formal structuring of the efficiency analysis, yes? choosing certain mathematical constructions brings the invisible hand into dispute with the pin factory.

This has clear analytical consequences and from that construction, when we introduce normative issues into the analysis of equilibrium, this conflict between reality and the model that we call market failures begins to appear. When the problem of non-convexities appears, it has to do with concentrated market structures, with monopolies. We can have the case of public goods.

There is something very funny about public goods, we usually discuss in terms of public goods in terms of rivalry in consumption and exclusion. When one looks then, for example, at the emblematic case that was used to describe a case where rivalry in consumption was not met and exclusion was the issue of headlights.

In one of those meetings that Milton Friedman and other economists had in Chicago, a lawyer used to participate who obviously was not contaminated with all the neoclassical tools that we basic economists are contaminated with, so he found very funny solutions, they said that the emblematic case They were the rulings, this lawyer who later won the Nobel Prize in Economics and who lived to be one hundred and four years old, if I'm not mistaken, whose name was Ronald Coase, what did he do? He went and analyzed all the failures of the nineteenth century, an emblematic case of market failure and it was the case of public goods and that required the intervention of the State and whatever. Well, guess what he discovered: they were all private.

That is to say, we economists do not know how to describe the problem well, the problem is not in reality, it is that we have tools that are wrong. This is an issue, that of public goods, I am going to ask it to you now and I think that when I tell it to you, you will believe that this is a joke. But, believe me, in real life it is not, much less in Argentina. It may be that you are affected by the case, but suppose that you have two communities separated by a river and you discover that if you build a bridge you could exchange with the other community, you are expanding the market, therefore, you are going to put, have more division of labor, greater productivity, greater well-being.

Sorry, do you have a Boca t-shirt there? Well, that's populism. No, but that was when he was a goalkeeper, it doesn't count, but doubly populist.

Well, they discover that it would be good to make a bridge, what happens? If it were only a private problem, do you know what they do? They come to an agreement and get together and build the bridge, they look for a way around it. The problem is when the State is present, then the State goes, taxes everyone and makes the bridge. But then there are a lot of people who live off the State. So what do they do? They start searching, they make the Ministry of the Bridge and they start looking for where to make bridges. There comes a time when they have made all the bridges that could be made, so they create the Ministry of Water to provide water and then build a bridge. You laugh, I ask you to review the public service organizational chart. Luckily, here I have with me this formidable, wonderful professional, who is my Minister of Economy, Luis Caputo, who is the one who is carrying out the chainsaw and from that we are getting a lot of things.

I want to tell you that it makes me very happy when you applaud my Minister of Economy because not only is he making the biggest adjustment in Argentine history, but it is the biggest in the history of humanity, in depth and in amount of time. . When you put together what we are doing in the Treasury and in the Central Bank, in fact, we have more than thirteen points of adjusted GDP. That, if you raised it at another time, they crucified both of us in the middle of 9 de Julio, which is where there is an obelisk, a tall and big thing there. I upload it to presentations and they applaud it, it is a change of era. People are waking up, they are waking up to the ideas of freedom and the man who is carrying it out is dear Luis Caputo, who is here present, thank you.

Obviously there is another type of supposed market failure and we could analyze it, externalities. You take the case of externalities, externalities in consumption is to avoid that point, so that there is not a problem of circularity in the resolution of the balance of the general problem. But you think that people are so idiotic that they won't be able to decide, there will come a time when they will die of hunger, so they will decide in some way not to die. That is to say, then I don't need someone to intervene to solve the externality of consumption because in the end someone is going to solve it. The cases of externality in production, how many times have you seen in textbooks about the company that pollutes the sea or water? It is actually a problem of defining property, in fact, one of the brilliant things that Coase also solved was the issue of solving these problems by assigning property rights.

Another issue is that of asymmetric information, where it is obviously clear that it is better not to involve the State because we can solve this problem better by being in the trenches than someone who is going to look at it from Everest. The other thing that is also extremely arrogant is the issue of coordination failure as a consequence of a prisoners' dilemma problem. If you noticed, there is a strong assumption in the prisoners' dilemma: prisoners cannot interact.

You realize that this very simple assumption has a gross level of institutional violence, and then, as I grab and put that level of gross institutional violence, now I need a violent organism to solve the coordination problem as if the agents were idiots and the agents are not idiots, they are intelligent. The problem is that there are a lot of satraps involved in the environment called the State and who live off our money and that is why they generate these problems, for what? For them to live off of that and not for us to be better.

That is, they create their own demand, why? Because they have the coercive power of the State in the middle. That is to say, the guy who is in the State looks at what he can regulate, one of the things that is going to happen to the regulators and this is important for them to take into account, is that, since they are in that office and they need to justify why What are they warming up the chair, create regulations to justify their existence and ruin our lives. It is not minor because it has direct implications on how this negatively impacts innovation, for example. Well, they regulate because they don't know, they regulate because they have to warm the chair, they regulate for whatever reason and they are ruining our lives.


I tell you more, when you have monopolies and this is important because we already know that we are going to have to explain growth on the side of increasing returns, when you start to regulate and look at any regulation model, one of the things that happens is that when you regulate, given the regulatory framework that the competitive model implies, you regulate those monopolies so that they resemble the competitive model as much as possible and if they do not achieve it, well, let it seem like the second best solution, which is the Ramsey .

In that context, what this regulation is going to do is eliminate the quasi-income and if you eliminate the quasi-income, you are eliminating the incentives to innovate and if you regulate by assimilating competitive companies and take away the quasi-income, what you are doing is kill innovation and therefore are killing economic growth. Therefore, when you start to regulate, what will be the other side? It's going to be that they are not going to grow. What is the region of the world that is growing the least? Out of scandal, Europe and why? Because they are crammed with regulation, they became so fanatical about generating a model that resembles the competitive model that they killed increasing returns. That is to say, they killed the quasi-income, by killing the quasi-income, they have no incentive to invest. If they do not invest, there is no innovation, therefore they were left without economic growth, therefore let us not let these fatally arrogant people destroy our lives with regulations, let us go to a much freer society and if the problem is economic theory, trying to see where the error of economic theory is, that the world resembles an economic theory that has errors that came from a world that had no growth.

The Edwards box can be a lot of fun when there is no growth in a static economy, just like Malthus, just like increasing marginal returns, but that's not the real world. What I do? Should I stick with the model or should I stick with reality?
Since reality makes me uncomfortable, I stick with the model and say that the problem is reality. Let's not fall into that madness because in that madness we are going to destroy our lives.

Well, now what do we do? where we go? One of the things I did was say, I'm not going to tell the whole story because I don't have the time and well, having studied the history of economic thought has some advantages like knowing where to make the cut, right? I said: "Let's go to Adam Smith, let's put Adam Smith as a starting point." Although, surely you are aware that I am a libertarian liberal, I adhere to the Austrian school of economics, that in reality philosophically I am an anarcho-capitalist and that in real life I am a minarchist. Unlike my colleagues, I do not have a negative view of Adam Smith, in fact, Adam Smith seems to me to be a kind of total genius. For me, Adam Smith is what he has been to economics. Gauss to mathematics. That is, someone who was 200 years ahead of his time and was the one who saw it. We, since we have a very particular way of doing politics, traditional analysts question us and we mock that and tell them. : "They don't see it." Well, Adam Smith saw it. In that sense, basically, from my interpretation of Adam Smith, the wonderful thing about Adam Smith is that he had an implicit model of economic growth.


Adam Smith's model in "The Inquiry into the Nature and Cause of the Wealth of Nations", for the friends of "The Wealth of Nations", what it has is a model of economic growth. In fact, the idea of ​​the pin factory is the idea of ​​increasing returns because it said, if I have one person making pins, a single person, even if he were very good, what would he be able to produce? Twenty units and no more than that. Now, what he was saying is that, when he divided the work into fifteen different activities, the production of pins per capita jumped to five thousand. That is to say, you had increased the plant fifteen times, in terms of personnel, and production had gone from twenty to five thousand per capita.


Then he says something that is very interesting and that in light of what is being woven and carved regarding the interpretations of the future, especially the wonder that artificial intelligence implies, which is the exacerbation of increasing returns, especially for those dystopian balances. I would tell you, don't be so afraid of dystopian equilibria because the idea of ​​the pin factory and increasing returns and the division of labor has a limit. And what is the limit? The size of the market.


I'm not going to take fifteen employees to the pin factory and then I would have fifty thousand, seventy-five thousand pins to sell. If I can't sell them, I'm not going to go to that level of division of labor. I'm going to go to the level that the market supports me. Do not think about the process only on the supply side, think that there is also demand, let's not fall into the problems that we fell into in the past with the hatred of the machine, that is, with the Luddites.


Because, let's see, the day Edison invented the light bulb, of course, the candle manufacturers were very angry. They were very angry and then, the reality is that what Edison did was wonderful, right? Because that allowed me to have a better quality good, at a better price, it reached more people, it also generated more work and I also saved money and I was able to spend on other goods. That is, a machine to generate well-being. That is, those that generate technological progress are machines that generate well-being. But they can never go beyond the limit of the market, unless there is innovation that makes us all richer, that we are all better off.

So let's not be afraid. Let's not ask for regulations because we don't understand what it is about. Let's try to understand what it is about and not regulate. That is to say, freedom can never be bad, the bad thing is not being free. Innovation is never bad, lastly, we can discuss the values ​​on which innovation is built and if we build them on the values ​​of libertarianism, I mean, who could be against unrestricted respect for the life project of others or in defense of the right to life, liberty, property based on the principle of non-aggression? What is the problem with this? Who is against this? Only you could be successful serving others with better quality, at a better price. But there is a limit: the limit is the size of the market. Don't be afraid, don't regulate technological progress, it will have demand as a counterpart.


Or do you think that you are going to generate technological progress for things that do not exist? How are they going to do such a crazy thing and be sinking a lot of money into it? If in reality that money comes from human beings, are they going to waste money just to waste money? I don't know businessmen who are dedicated to burning money for sport.


The other thing that is also very interesting about Adam Smith's work is that he contemplated learning in practice, that is, the work model, and he also contemplated technological progress. Because basically what Adam Smith said was that a person in his work, every time he did it more times, he did it better and better. That is to say, at some point he found ways to produce the same thing but using less work and reached a discrete leap. We call that discrete leap technological progress.


That is to say, Adam Smith not only contemplated increasing returns, he had the problem of the division of labor well defined, but he also had a growth model that contemplated technological progress. All in the year 1776, and it also took him ten years to write the book. If that's not being advanced, I don't know what being advanced is. And the other thing that was interesting were the free markets and the minimal intervention of the State. And the corollary of that is the invisible hand. That each one, guided by his own interest, leads to the general well-being.

On the monetary level, Adam Smith had a gold standard model. Now, once we have the work of Adam Smith, it is clear that today it is easy, already knowing the results, we know that Adam Smith was right. But at the time it wasn't so obvious. Stopped in 1776, it was not so obvious. And that's why you have to say that in the year 1801, if I'm not mistaken, Malthus's work and the idea of ​​diminishing marginal returns appeared there. It didn't seem crazy in light of what, say, the previous eighteen hundred years had been like. And furthermore, before the year zero it did not differ much from what it was after until 1800 and that had a meaning because it said that when someone arrived, they occupied the best plot of land and when the second arrived, they occupied a smaller one and so on.


So marginal productivity was decreasing, yes? That made real salaries increasingly lower and that, later interacted with the passion for the sexes, arrived at the iron law of salaries and led to a lot of aberrant relationships that we are not going to be discussing now, but aberrant relationships that had been going on for many years. It is not the focus of the discussion at this time to go there. That idea was continued by Ricardo, by Stuart Mill, until it reached Marx. The reality is that at that moment is when the neoclassical theory appears, surpassing the classics, with the subjective theory of value. There appears Menger on the one hand and Léon Walras, I mention them because it is important since at some point economic theory is going to have to go back to a part of history, after Keynes, and that gave a relevant basis for where they are going. to nourish

In that sense, when we are entering the twentieth century, it is beginning to become evident that Malthus's analysis was wrong, that what Adam Smith had proposed was right, that there was the problem of increasing returns and that if one wanted to explain the economic growth with constant returns to scale and with neoclassical tools, in that format it did not work, much less with diminishing marginal returns.


The first two to see this were Alfred Marshall and Allyn Young and they began to see how they could put the question of increasing returns into the structure of the models to explain economic growth. This debate was so important and so intense that it is when we begin to discuss monopoly and there you will find the theory of monopoly, such as that of Joan Robinson or very interesting models such as that of Chamberlin with monopolistic competition. That is to say, there was a whole climate at the time to try to see where the problem of increasing returns was and how to put them into what today we would call macroeconomic analysis or economic growth to explain economic growth, there was a specific problem. But Keynes appeared and the problem with the appearance of Keynes is that the entire analytical framework that existed previously destroyed him. That is to say, the "General Theory" is a masterpiece, but a masterpiece of evil, of terror. I don't want to start talking about Keynes because if I do this it will take me seven hours and I have a lot of meetings that I won't get to.


How did pre-Keynes macroeconomic analysis work? I mean, it wasn't called macroeconomics, but it doesn't matter, today we can think of it that way. They were what were called models of an intertemporal nature, where the interaction between savings and investment determined the interest rate, which is called the Wicksellian interest rate, that is, as the interest rate being an intertemporal coordination mechanism that is not neither more nor less than the relative price of present goods with respect to future goods and in the money market the price level was determined. In other words, it was a model of intertemporal characteristics where in the goods market the relative prices were determined and, in intertemporal terms, savings and investment determined the interest rate and that had to have all the relative prices aligned in terms of goods to that everything coincided that they had the same interest rate so that there was no intertemporal arbitrage.

There, what Keynes did was break everything. The first thing he did was create a consumption function depending on income, which in terms of those who understand general equilibrium, that is an aberration. The general equilibrium functions do not contemplate quantities, they contemplate all prices, so In fact, a general equilibrium model is determined by preferences, endowments and technology, and if they take out the excess demand functions, they depend on prices, there is no income, it does not appear there, the income is derived from selling my endowments and from the participation that I have in the benefits, with the prices there is all the information.

But since Keynes was not an economist and had only taken a course with Marshall, who was the champion of partial equilibrium, it occurred to him to put income into the consumption function and broke the intertemporality of consumption. Therefore, the savings became a residual after the investment. The "General Theory" is interesting because it has a beautiful chapter describing what the investment criteria are like and in the other it says that basically the "animal spirits" determine the investment. I have ruder versions, but I cannot say them as head of state.

In the goods market, instead of determining the interest rate, it begins to determine income, and with that income it determines the demand for labor which, when faced with a job offer, determines the salary. This has several problems because it needs to determine the price level and the interest rate. He decides to determine the interest rate in the money market, which is crazy because the interest rate exists not because money exists, but because time exists. Also, how is there going to be an interest rate in a single period model? It doesn't make sense, the interest rate is an essentially intertemporal issue. Therefore, he obviously had no theory of capital or anything like that. What did he do? Well, he determined that the price level of the economy was a mark-up on wages, that is, another aberration. He destroyed the entire theory of value. Obviously, such a monster could not work and then, when it became clear that Keynesian theory did not work, it manifested itself with the acceleration of inflation.


What happened then? The multiplier implied a violation of the budget constraint. They said "hey, we got out of hand, we're going to go back to basics." But since the Austrian school had been defeated in that historical context, they decided to return to Walras' line, and leveraged themselves on the work of Abraham Wald, a young mathematician who in the 1920s demonstrated the existence of equilibrium without having theorems. of fixed point, a true genius and with the arrival of Brouwer's fixed point theorems in '56 and Kakutani's in '57, the first for functions and the second for correspondences, we began to work on the analysis of general equilibrium.


In general equilibrium we basically study if the equilibrium exists, if it is unique and if it is stable. The wonder of fixed point theorems is that if we are working with sets that are closed, bounded, convex and with continuous functions, we can apply Brouwer's theorem. Then the balance will exist, it will be unique and stable. In the case of correspondences, the equilibrium will exist, we do not know if it is unique, but if we make some additional assumptions, whether on the demand or supply side or both, we can ensure uniqueness and stability.


The problem appears when we want to introduce Pareto optimality, that is, add welfare properties to the equilibrium that we now know exists, is unique and is stable. The idea is that if each person guided by his own interest, called “maximizes his utility”, leads to maximum general well-being and we would need that all agents would be maximizing. But when we put it in terms of the consumer, there is no problem, the problem appears on the side of the firm.


One of the problems is that they cannot accept increasing returns because in that case the production functions would be convex functions and they could not find a maximum unless they found it at an edge, which would imply that they kept the entire economy. When you look and there are several companies, it means that it is not a problem. In a single agent economy, that happened in communism and we already know that it was a failure because it couldn't compute prices, therefore it doesn't work.


So, it was decided to look the other way and leave it at that. In Varian's book, which is surely the best at an intermediate level, do you know how many times the word entrepreneur is mentioned in the book? None and company? Four times. Signature, yes. That is, do you believe that the function of the entrepreneur is only to solve a Lagrangian? The businessman's job would be quite easy and that was lost here, which prevents us from correctly capturing the problem of increasing returns.

This problem of wanting to do welfare analysis led to using bad mathematical constructions that leave us with constant returns to scale or decreasing marginal returns. If there is something that reality differs from the model, we call it market failures, and that enables intervention. When we enable intervention, the result is worse.


The more we move forward with regulations, the more we will be killing increasing returns, profit generation, and incentives to innovate. If we kill the incentives to innovate, we will not grow more.


I suggest actively reading a work by Murray Newton Rothbard, the inventor of anarcho-capitalism, called "Monopoly and Competition", within the book "Man, Economy and the State". The third volume is called "Power and Market", but it is part of the same work where Rothbard becomes anarcho-capitalist. This will open your eyes and you will see that monopolies are not bad. If I have 10 companies and one creates a product, like a better quality cell phone at a better price, the other nine go bankrupt. But that businessman is a social benefactor because he is giving me a better quality good at a better price, which allows me to consume other goods and save money, that is, he is making my life easier. It doesn't matter if he saves it or reinvests it in his company, because that will generate better products and salaries, save me more money and do a lot of other things, fantastic, what's the problem?


Look, this guy is so bad, so villainous that you know what he does, all the money he earns he buries in the floor. Well, if you did that, you are taking money out of the economy and therefore the price level is lower and that is what we all want, therefore lowering prices, let's not be afraid, let's move forward, let's be optimistic. We don't know what the future will be like, the only thing we know is that it will be much better and it will be much better if in the middle we remove the State from our entire lives. Thanks a lot.
