Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the opening of the school year at the Cardenal Copello Institute, CABA

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50386-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-la-apertura-del-ciclo-lectivo-en-el-instituto-cardenal-copello-caba

Wednesday, March 6, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the opening of the school year at the Cardenal Copello Institute, CABA

PRESIDENT.- Hello everyone, if not, it's not me. Sorry for breaking protocol: Well, first of all, thank you very much to all the authorities at the school for welcoming me back. I'm going to tell you a very funny anecdote; Recently, when I was in Rome, and I went to visit Pope Francis - at one point after the meeting was over - I went to see him with the entourage, which consisted of my sister, who is the general secretary of the Presidency; with Foreign Minister Diana Mondino; the Minister of the Interior, Guillermo Francos; the Minister of Human Capital Sandra Petovello, and my Rabbi Axel Wahnish, and then, when Axel sees Pope Francis, he congratulates him on the enormous and monumental task that he is carrying out. And he says to him, "And he brought it back." And Pope Francis told him: "No, keep it." So well, thanks for having me, in Roman. (APPLAUSE)

Imagine that when I had to put together the speech, there were different ways to approach it. For example, one of the things I could have done is, being a specialist in economic growth and given the role that human capital has, and given the revolutionary nature of what we are doing in the matter, where - to the point that we have been the first country in the world to develop and present a Ministry of Human Capital - where the concept is that social assistance stops being about giving fish to people and teaching them to fish, that is, teaching them to be individuals, teaching them to be free, that each one, let's say, is in a position to learn to have their own food and be self-sustaining. Because, furthermore, when you give him the fish, you give him the fish, that is a hindrance of slavery, that is, in fact, the Jewish people remember that as slavery, in Egypt. So, we - as a concept of human capital - is to create free individuals so that they can be self-sustaining. If I start talking about topics, I may get a little dense, so I preferred to go through other sides, but also each of those sides, through which one can advance, has edges.

So, the first thing I would like is for us to become aware of what is happening to us, because if this had happened, 36 or 37 years ago - I would be where you are. So that means that, in 36 or 37 years, you could be where I am, so we wanted to more or less realize that we can raise the bar a little higher and also do it better than what I'm going to do. I'll do it so that, when it's your turn, we'll have gotten out of this filthy pit we're in and we'll be a developed country. So, in that sense, it seems to me that as a challenge to understand the historical contextualization of what happened and what can happen, I find it interesting.

One of the ways, also, that I could approach the talk is to make the context, in which I was at school. Obviously, if I did it as a Marxist, I would also do all that historical narrative and try to put it in the class struggle and reinterpret all the facts. I am not going to do that; What I am going to do is tell what things happened to me, while, for example, I was at school.

I entered school in 1977, that is, 47 years ago, which means that some stories that I can tell you are absolutely anachronistic, but as a concept, I entered a year after the Civil-Military coup. , one of the darkest parts of the history of Argentina, interpreted and reinterpreted, something that I invite you to always do for yourselves; Have a critical spirit, read one side of the library and the other side. Because – perhaps – you know my newest facet, which is that of the libertarian liberal, the capitalist anarcho, the minarchist, in real life, but – when I started – I did it much more to the left. So the only way to have a strong position on something is to look at the entire library and that, too, I suggest you look at the entire library.

The following year, in 1978, was when Argentina became world champion, in the 78 World Cup. It was a beautiful final, on the River field; One of my great youth idols was “Pato” Fillol. You may not even know who he is, for me he was the best goalkeeper of all time, but you must be fascinated with “Dibu” Martínez, who had a save quite similar to the one Fillol had, in the year 78, too, About the hour. And then other memories from school come to mind, like when we played figurines and those things we did as kids.

Later, in 1980, when I went to fourth grade, I had to go in the morning and there we had a new teacher, which is the one here, Brother Arturo. So what karma, what karma. Later, in the year 81, we had what was called the crisis of the exchange rate table, or crisis of the Martínez de Hoz program, it was very nice at that time, because, when Martínez de Hoz resigned, a minister named Lorenzo took over. Sigaut, who said that he who bets on the dollar loses. As you will see, the event marked me a lot in different ways. That was the first time I decided - at that age - to be an economist because I saw how the family's economic situation changed brutally. But, in addition, the obsession was quite intense - to put it in a polite way - to the point that I want to eliminate the Central Bank. So look, things are much stronger than one imagines. Another thing that happened is that, in 1982, we had the Malvinas War. Then, in 1983, I was in seventh grade, and it was the arrival of democracy, the return of democracy, which – coincidentally, 40 years later – led me to become president. I remember that it was something that we truly experienced with great intensity, even though we did not know the whole story, that is, we were not fully aware of it.

Later, in 1984, I entered high school; That was the first mixed class at the school, in secondary school, and later, in 1985, the Austral Plan came. As you will see, let's say there is always some reference to the economy, because that is why the economy. Poor my economy minister, what he suffers, not that they don't think so much, because he has a pretty good time.

In '86, we had the Soccer World Cup, in Mexico, plus, Maradona's goal, against the English, everything... and - in 1988 - came the Spring Plan, which later, the following year, ended in hyperinflation, Something that I also point out and was important for me because although I had become enthusiastic about economics, already at 10 years old, the reasons why I decided to study Economics are not the same reasons why I became passionate about economics.

Yes, actually, when I decided that I wanted to be an economist it was for an absolutely monetary issue. I said: "Well, getting the dollar right is synonymous with economic progress," and I said to myself: "I have to be an economist to make money." The interesting thing is that later, the reasons why I was passionate about it were totally different because during the hyper, in the year 89 - I at that time - was on the professional team, in Chacarita, that is, I have a dark side, and that is that I was a soccer goalkeeper and I have a whole, even, much darker feeling than it was, later, when I was a singer in a rock band, where the uncle of one of you, who is here, played the drums with me and, the father of Another of those here also - at some point - played guitar in a group with me. In other words, we have common stories everywhere going around and the issue is that I was doing my first year of Economics there and I was studying that when prices rise the quantity demanded falls.

One day I was accompanying my mother to the supermarket, and I was leaning there on the cart and I said: “I'm going to tell you something that you may not know, but there were some girls, with a gun, who set the prices, who They were called pilladoras. And, what's more, what you see now about barcodes, bars, in reality, were implemented, at that time, because prices were rising so quickly that they could not re-label and, imagine, when you went and They bought and arrived at the gondola and had to change them, it was a quite traumatic situation. That's why we are so obsessed with avoiding hyperinflation and - at that time - I saw that prices were rising and people were rushing for merchandise. So what I said was: “what I'm studying is wrong or I'm a fool,” to put it elegantly, so the solution of dignity made me stop playing soccer and dedicate myself to studying. I also got quite intense with that and - at 20 years old - I wrote my first academic work, called: "Hyperinflation and distortion in the markets" and once I started writing, I didn't stop, I mean, it's like a kind of vice and today I have 17 books. Soon, I have a work coming out, called "Capitalism, socialism and the neoclassical trap" and that, let's say, with respect to historical events that happened while I was at school.

Obviously, I could also have done a review of teachers who have marked me. So - even if you don't believe it - I had you here, believe me you were here just the same. Obviously, let's say, I remember brother Arturo, brother Juan, I remember a lot a teacher that I had, in fifth grade, and in seventh grade, whose name was Elvia and she was very important for me because, like me when I was in fourth grade, I had started playing soccer and as I advanced in the topics of soccer and the way in which I trained and the demand on time that it implied, my academic performance was dropping substantially and I would almost tell you that, when I was reaching By seventh grade, my performance was collapsing.

In that context - they were different times - my father was ready to grab me by the hair and leave me a shoe store in the trash and my mother was ready to knock my teeth down, by slapping me, so that I could study, since they were other times. So, he got together with Elvia and my teacher told him: "Don't take soccer away from him, but let soccer be a reward for his performance," that is, if he studied, performed and did things well, he would continue playing soccer. , and if not, they would take me out. And that worked fabulously, because I started to reorder my methods for training and studying as well. So, I studied either very late at night or very early in the morning. I remember - in that seventh grade - a wonderful teacher named Viola and later, some of the teachers I had in high school who were also wonderful, such as: Fuentes Moreno; Óscar, he's crazy, Elizalde, and I also have a lot of memories of everyone, but - again - telling him these types of things almost also becomes anachronistic.

Subsequently, I decided to focus on two very important events, which I am going to tell you about and I think is the best thing I can convey to you today: there is a conference by Steve Jobs at Stanford University, which I highly recommend. It's one where Steve Jobs says that you can't connect the dots forward; You can join them back. He says many of the things that happen to you today, you don't know why it happens to you, but that later, when it happens, you begin to understand what happened to you.

In that sense, that lesson from Steve Jobs was very important, but it hit me very hard, in 1985. My sister, who was studying at a school near here, decided to go to Copello, and when she entered, she Part of the secondary school admissions were under the orbit of a brother who - at that time - was called Brother Bravo and said something very interesting and very revealing. Brother Bravo then said: "Look, you don't come to study here, because of how we teach Mathematics, how we teach Literature, Geography, I don't know, whatever subject you want. You can learn that anywhere. The fundamental reason why "You come here, you are here and you want your sister to be here and your family wants your sister to be here, it is a question of values." And there, that allowed me to connect with the strongest memory that I have from school, which is my first day of classes, in 1977. Before that, I am going to tell you something that happened to me, when I was older and it is than when I was, in college, studying economic growth. At the time, the subject was called Economic Growth and Development. The truth is that I would have preferred it to have focused more on growth than economic development. I got a teacher who seemed quite left-handed to me at that time. So imagine what I can think today, because I think I could almost have a fit yelling at him as a communist. But as you can see, I live making jokes about myself, because otherwise life is a mess. What's more, now that they treat me like I'm royalty, so it's complicated. Then, I remember that, within the little interest that the teacher was responsible for giving, in the topics of growth... (someone in the audience faints). Well, as you see, mentioning communists is so dangerous that it always causes problems. And in that sense, when I started, obviously I was self-taught. And then, I start reading the books, which the teacher didn't give me. Then, in one of the growing-up books, I found a phrase by Robert Lucas Junior, which I feel is so important in my life that two of my four-legged children have his name: one is called Robert, after Robert Lucas. , and the other Lucas, too, by Robert Lucas. So, in that context, I find a phrase that says: "The consequences on human well-being of these types of issues are so shocking that when you start thinking about it you can't think about anything else." Since at that time I was an insolent young man, 22-23 years old, quite ignorant - to put it elegantly - the first thing I said was: "Well, this is the typical teacher, who believes that his subject is the most important". And perhaps - at that moment - he saw it as something negative and heavy and as something that took away his credit; Later, over time, with my teaching experience of nearly 30 years, and in that context, today I tell them: "I hope every time you have a teacher,"a teacher considers that his subject is the best of all and the most important because he is going to teach it with passion."

And although all matters are important, even even the matter that seems most insignificant (because it is insignificant), (he laughs and comments that not only Kicillof comments on nonsense), the issue and the problem is how many. Besides, let's say, I'm with high lights, I'm not reading my speech, so what are Arturo's high lights, now. Then, the subject - suddenly - may seem like a minor subject or something and in reality that subject may end up being - in the light of the teacher they have - something truly wonderful. And this paper is proof of that, I would tell you, because my first subject, the first day I came to Cardenal Copello school, was Calligraphy. You know that many times my notes are floating around, you've already seen what my handwriting is, let's say. I believe that my handwriting has a social function and it makes the doctors' handwriting look nice (Laughs), so it serves a purpose. I would almost say that Brother José Luis, a brother who came from Spain, very tall, very robust towards the sides, who taught classes in a cassock, left me marked for life, and I cannot help but be moved. He was the Calligraphy teacher, calligraphy with a specialist in Economic Growth and Mathematical Economics, it seems that he doesn't fit anything and on top of that if I want to link them with Brother Bravo - when he joined my sister - it seems quite far-fetched. In that class, brother José Luis did two things: the first he drew the school's shield, which I don't see that anyone has the original shield of the school, the one with the oval in the middle, that oval in the middle symmetrical, divided In four parts, on what is the main diagonal, it has a drawing of some animals, which have the characteristic of having very expensive skin. And said teacher told us, obviously with certainty, the example was flowery and metaphorized, that they go out to hunt that little animal, when it is raining and they corner it against the mud because the little animal prefers to die rather than get dirty and boy was it putting up a fight. . And the other very strong thing is that brother José Luis - after explaining to us the value of dead, rather than dirty - and you see the mess we are making, notice that every day we find a new job and we take it outside all the time. I'm excited about the Minister of Human Capital, who is a job-finding machine, and she has an anti-corruption division and that every week she moves into a new apartment and it's been a while since you'll be seeing them; beyond those who end up incriminating themselves for removing trust funds from a law.

In that context, the other thing that brother José Luis did was write the numbers and started from zero to 10; Zero was something very small and as they moved towards 10, the numbers grew and 10 took up the entire height of the blackboard, and there he told us about merit. So, if something marked my life, it was that class, first grade, well, today, I still remember it. 47 years have passed and I am still moved by that memory, which marked my entire life: dead before dirty and fighting for merit, fighting for excellence. And those are values, that I took, in a Calligraphy class, but at the Cardenal Copello school, in the Minas Gerais community, and that seems to me that, if I had something to tell you, it was that, the most valuable thing is that, that they are upright people, whatever they do, but be upright, that is, fight for their ideals, do not give up.

Look, I usually..., for those who follow us, you will see that our followers have two hats, they have the one that is very nice and we all have fun with it: "you don't see it", and the other is: "the forces from the sky". The forces of heaven were born when it was my turn to take office as a National Deputy, on December 11, 2021, and at that moment a journalist, from Diputados TV, -very rude, very rude- asked me: you are 2 in 257, are you? what can you do? That is, they are going to fall into total irrelevance, they are going to be nothingness itself; In fact, we didn't even have the body to join a commission. And at that moment I answered him with the book of Maccabees which says: “that victory, in battle, does not depend on the number of soldiers, but on the forces that come from heaven”; and those two marginal ones, up in the Chamber of Deputies..., and in principle my videos are the most viewed videos within the Chamber of Deputies, in the history of the Chamber of Deputies; and not only that, but shortly after assuming, due to a brilliant idea from my sister of how the anarchist resolved the issue of collecting a diet from the State, that is, something collected through taxes, which are theft because no one pay voluntarily, where do you think taxes come from? a hindrance of slavery. So, but if we also decided who to give it to, that was almost like, I don't know, playing the social benefactor that any politician plays, which also seemed bad to us; and it brilliantly occurred to my sister - it occurred to the “Boss” - that we should draw it and we draw it. And that ended up being the cover of newspapers in 30 countries around the world; I mean, of course, there was no such thing as a politician returning money to the people, it was quite, quite rare. And if you notice, our entire career in politics was a struggle against enormous adversity.

The first thing they said was that we were not going to be able to form a party, that is, the first thing they said: "They are not going to be able to form a party." So, in fact, the Head of Government - at that time - dedicated himself to buying every rubber stamp that was around so that we could not compete. Once..., I'm going to tell you in a simplified way, that is, if you want to see it, it's in a film that -the brilliant- Santiago Oría made, which is called..., Santi, what's the name of the film? The Liberal Revolution. There it is, there it is. That's my filmmaker, he's the one who makes the videos, everything, I mean, a brilliant guy. (APPLAUSE). that we are already at almost 2 million views of the film, and that they are also translating it into several languages. There they will be able to see everything in detail, all the things we suffered.

After that they told us that..., we already had a game, they told us that we were not going to be able to pass the 2 percent floor. Later - as we continued to advance - they told us that we were going to lose against the blank vote. Then they told us that the left was going to beat us by a landslide. Nothing happened, right? because the names... And then they even created a parallel list to break our structure and to decimate us, and even so we managed, in the city, to get 17 percent of the votes - we had become the third force - and after what It happened with the diet draw with my sister, we looked at each other and said: well, it seems we are up to other things. They started with the same type of attacks that we were not going to be able to form a party; And that's why of the 24 districts we participated in 22. They said that with luck - in the best of cases - we would get just under 10 points and that after the PASO we were going to drop to three; and we continued fighting because we were convinced that - again - "victory is the battle, it does not depend on the number of soldiers, but on the forces that come from heaven." And that's when we were surprised and ended up getting 30 percent of the votes and we were the most voted force, both by candidate and force.

And that began a very difficult stretch towards the general election, we have had to endure two structures throwing at us with everything you can imagine, in fact, the ruling party - at that time - spent..., think that an electoral campaign in general is carried out... , with yours; No, when they make it gas-powered - like us -; 100 million dollars are spent. Well, the ruling party - only the ruling party - spent 300 million dollars on YouTube so that every time you opened YouTube you would find negative publicity about me, and despite the enormous effort we made..., in fact, my strategist, who also He is a brilliant, wonderful guy, who is Santiago Caputo. When you review all the interviews, there is not a single error. But we had the free electrons that made..., you saw how we libertarians are. Libertarians are not a pack. So, since we have many free thinkers, they would ambush the rest of our candidates and every now and then we would have a problem. And so we reached the PASO, but we came in second place and those two lost people there, in the Chamber, who could not do anything, ended up in the presidency, they ended up winning the election with 14 and a half million votes. In other words, I am the president with the most votes in Argentine history and we got 56 percent of the votes.

So, what I want to convey to you is that when you have conviction, there is nothing that can stop you. And if, in addition, they are accompanied by faith, there is nothing to destroy them with, they will never be able to stop them. One of the things that we always reviewed - with my sister - during the campaign is that a lot of things happened to us that if any other candidate had happened to him, he would have been knocked down and, yet, we kept moving forward; and for us that is like proof of heaven too, it is proof of the existence of one, because if you stop to think about it, we didn't have a handle; We went to fight with two toothpicks and the only thing we had were ideas and faith. And every time something adverse happened to us, the reflection we did - with my sister - was that indeed, if despite all this we won, it is because it is the will of one.

So, what I tell you is when you let your heart lead you, when you are whole, and above all things, you place your faith in the creator, nothing is going to stop you, everything is going to be possible. So I hope this is something that can add up to a life full of happiness and success. Thank you so much. (APPLAUSE).

STUDENT.- My question is..., you already half answered it. But what did you take away from studying at this school?

PRESIDENT.- How?

STUDENT.- What did you take away from studying at this school?

PRESIDENT.- The values, the most important ones, the values.

STUDENT.- I want to ask you, how did you and your team manage to have twin surpluses? After so long and in so few days.

PRESIDENT.- Look, if you look at the last 123 years of history; Argentina, of those 123 years, 113 had a deficit. Argentina had 22 crises - in that same period - and of those 22 crises, 20 had fiscal origins. The deficit, in each of these crises, ranges from high to extravagantly high. Therefore, we have a strong conviction that the mother of all evils is the fiscal deficit. The fiscal deficit then has different manifestations, that is, the first thing that the immoral politicians do is finance it with debt, which is deeply immoral because it is like..., how would you feel if your grandparents went on a rampage and Do they pass the bill to you? They would be overheated, to be mild. What politicians do is party and pass the bill to generations that were not even born, and some who - in addition - try to kill them, who are the murderers of the green scarves.

In that context..., I notice that, for me, abortion is a murder aggravated by the bond. And I can demonstrate that from a mathematical and philosophical perspective, from liberalism and, furthermore, from a biological perspective. But apart from that, all of us after that are the ultimate serial defaulter, that is, we do not fulfill our commitments either. The other way that the politician uses is to finance it with monetary emission and that later ends with inflation. And the other way it does it is by raising taxes and Argentina has the highest formal tax pressure in the world and that is what makes Argentina practically mission impossible to grow.

So, we had a clear conviction that the mother of all evils is the fiscal deficit. We were facing a situation on the verge of hyperinflation; so that you have an order of magnitudes, when you have twin deficits for four points of GDP...; For those who do not know what twin deficits are, it is the sum of the fiscal deficit plus the current account deficit, that is, the external deficit would be the current account. When you have a deficit above four points of GDP, you are already in a risk zone; in eight, they are candidates to hit the pineapple; They left us 17, another that Copperfield fixed this, I don't know, they are so young that I don't know if they know who David Copperfield is, I mean, my jokes are sometimes getting old, like me. Inexorably it will happen to everyone, unless we say that technology prevents it.

In that context, we -also- had hyperinflation in store, because prices in the first week of December grew at an annualized rate of 3,700 percent. The first two weeks, 7,500; and if you looked at the wholesalers, they came to 17,000, that is, we were truly on the verge of a disaster, and it was the combination of three crises: the “Rodrigazo” of '75, the Alfonsín hyperinflation, in '89, and the crisis of convertibility in 2001-2002. Therefore, we were facing a real disaster.

In that context, we had to stop, no matter what, the monetary issue and we had two mechanisms by which the Central Bank issued: one for the fiscal deficit, which was 5 points of GDP, and another was for the Central Bank, which generated 10 points of GDP deficit. So, we faced a very tough stabilization program, where we aimed at Zero deficit, that is, 5 adjustment points in the Treasury and trying to clean up the Central Bank, which is 10 points. Furthermore, 11 days after taking office, a payment was due with the Fund and we had no reserves and the agreement, furthermore, had fallen through. And so, with Minister Caputo, we decided to sit on top of the box and endure everything.

In that context, we fired 50,000 public employees who were not working, we canceled 200,000 social plans of people who really did not need them, people who, for example, go on vacation by plane, by boat, are public employees, that is, a lot of abuse. Not only that, but we also cut public works, we eliminated them, we made them zero. Furthermore, we eliminated the transfers to the provinces - the discretionary ones -, I did not charge a peso for the co-participation, that is technically impossible; That is, the contribution is deposited every day. And, in addition, we cut a lot of privileges that politics has. I remember... how many cars did you have in charge? The General Secretariat of the Presidency had 120 cars in charge. So, he started with the chainsaw. And this is very funny because at one point they tell him: "no, he can't take it out." Like what not? No, because such a secretary was self-assigned. Well, that secretary lasted a day. So we got rid of the cars. In the Ministry of Economy we took over 600 cars, telephones, that is, a lot of privileges that the caste has. What's more, they are so immoral that they took first class trips, accumulated miles and those miles were later spent with family members, one thing..., everything is like that, everywhere there are jobs, it's a disaster. And our objective, in the year, was to reach zero deficit in the year. And what we started to do was so strong, a mix of chainsaw and blender - I'm not going to deny that there is a blender, such a quick adjustment has a blender too, obviously - what happens is that, if the blender becomes permanent, it becomes chainsaw. Imagine, what is my intention?

So in that sense, when we started looking at the numbers, the numbers showed that we could reach primary balance in January and financial balance in March. That was important, until the numbers came in and we reached it in January. Not only did that surprise its own, but now, obviously, what they say: it has a lot of blender, a lot of blender is not sustainable. That is, all those who said it was impossible to do it, now complain about how we got there. But the reality is, if it was so easy, why wasn't it done in the last 123 years? So, it's not just that we know what needs to be done, we know how it needs to be done, but above all, we have the determination and courage to do it. In vulgar terms, it has another name; that, a lot. This is how we arrive. Thank you.

I am being careful with the terms because as I have the Minister of Human Capital and the Secretary of Education. (LAUGHTER). I'm good? I'm good?

STUDENT.- My question is, why do you think your political project had such a strong impact on young people? And long live freedom!

PRESIDENT.- Damn!

STUDENT.- Long live fucking freedom!

PRESIDENT.- That's not going to tell you anything. First, let's see, first let them know that, damn is not a bad word. Carajo is the highest part of the ship, that is, where the lookout is, the one who looks; Land in sight! That one, that one is there. The thing is that when someone got a little dense they sent him there so he would stop breaking... I mean, they sent him to hell, I mean, but hell is not a bad word. So they can say it openly. What happens is that we have the liberals of the party, that is, the sommeliers of the forms.

The point why I believe that young people are the ones who started this liberal revolution has to do with several things. First, young people are naturally rebellious against the status quo. And that means that when you look at everything that is politically correct, not only in Argentina, in the world, but in Argentina it is much more accentuated because we have had this for 100 years, it is socialist. If there are many people who are socialists without knowing it, that's why it was so, so shocking that I stood there in Davos and almost said to them: "You guys are all lefties"... And yes, I name them and they are infallible, I swear I don't name them anymore. So... well, I forgot, what was the question? Oh yes, the thing about the boys, therefore, the natural rebellion had to be liberal, that is, we were so, so contaminated by it. socialism, but we had so much red on us that the natural thing was for the revolution to be liberal.

Another thing that happens is that young people have been exposed for less time to the brainwashing mechanism that is public education, regardless of whether it is state or privately managed, because when they determine the contents, the contents are redacted. So, that also helps, it is not exposed, that is, because between having a contaminated head and having it clean, I prefer that it cleans you.

And the other thing that also played a very important role was the issue of networks, that is, social networks, and especially YouTube. So, I go, I sit on a television program, I talk and I quote a lot of authors. You then go, go on the Internet, and then everyone talks about Hayek, Mises or Rothbard. I can assure you that you go to the University of Buenos Aires, to the Faculty of Economic Sciences, and they talk to you about Ludwig Von Mises and you believe that he is the 9th of Holland; and for liberals he is the best economist of all time.

So, in that sense, ideas began to come in; And also that generates a very interesting dynamic because young people read that and confronted their teachers and professors, and it is full of videos of teachers mistreating students for opposing Kirchnerist oppression. And the truth is that they have been brave because they have beaten them back, they have bullied them, they have done everything to them; In fact, I - at this moment - have a problem with one of the people on my team..., well, since he doesn't fix it, I can say it publicly: at the University of Belgrano, there is a professor who persecutes Iñaki for being liberal, Iñaki, you saw the guy who makes my TikTok, I manage the other networks, that is, Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, whatever crap, it's me, but TikTok is Iñaki. And then he has a microeconomics professor who persecutes him for being liberal, bullies him; and the university, the first rector, looked the other way because the career director looked the other way, and the one who came after continues to allow it. In other words, I hope that the Secretary of Education and the Minister of Human Capital put in order this overflow that exists at the University of Belgrano, where there are professors - of radical origin - persecuting liberals. (INAUDIBLE). Good. Exact. Well, now let's look at actions.

So, in that context, the truth is that what young people did is remarkable, and then the pandemic arrived. And like all bad things, you can embrace the bad or look for the good. For example, in the middle of the pandemic, since I couldn't do anything, I was locked up, I wrote two books. I was already bored, so I wrote. And in that context, what happened? The young people began to talk to their parents and grandparents about the ideas of freedom, and they talked about Milei, Milei...; There is a joke, I can't tell, it's very rude, but the donkey succeeds because he insists, not because of the other. Was it understood? And they insisted so much that, at some point, they opened the videos and that's how it started. And then, something that was…, as those who were with López Murphy said, that it was a movement of 500 virgos; Those with Larreta's resources got fewer votes than us PASO, despite a lot of slander, insults, despite calling me a Nazi. And then not only that, but also, well, look where we got to. So young people have played a role, not only because they are the first to absorb the ideas, but they also evangelize.

So, that is why I always have a very particular gratitude to all the young people. Because if Argentina truly rises up and wakes up and becomes liberal, it is because it is thanks to the young people. Because as I said in my first speech there in Plaza Holland: I did not come to guide lambs, I came to awaken lions; and the first lions were you. Thank you very much and long live fucking freedom! (APPLAUSE).
