Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the official ceremony for the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, from the Holocaust Museum, CABA

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50311-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-acto-oficial-por-el-dia-internacional-en-memoria-de-las-victimas-del-holocausto-desde-el-museo-del-holocausto-caba

Friday, January 26, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the official ceremony for the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, from the Holocaust Museum, CABA

First of all, I want to begin by thanking the president of the Holocaust Museum, Marcelo Mindlin, for inviting me to say a few words on this date that is close to our hearts. I consider it an honor. I want to thank everyone who has just shared this ceremony with me, and also greet everyone present here.

As everyone knows, the majority will have experienced firsthand, it is tradition in Jewish weddings for the groom to break a crystal glass under his foot. Stepping on the cup, we remember the two destructions of the Holy Temple of Jerusalem: the first 2,600 years ago at the hands of the Babylonians, the second 600 years later as a result of the oppression of the Roman yoke.

In the context of a wedding, one of the great joys in a person's life, the protagonists and guests remember a tragic event in their history: the destruction of their city and the house of God, the symbol of their people, at the hands of invading barbarism. It is frankly a moving image. Having gone through so much pain, they choose to remember it as they celebrate the beginning of a new Jewish family. On the rubble, on the ruins, on what was destroyed, a testimony of strength and hope is once again built. This tradition expresses what I consider one of the most admirable qualities of the Jewish community: resilience, the quality of facing adversity, of resisting oppression, of regaining strength and of flourishing again.

Today we commemorate the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, one of the greatest atrocities in memory against the Jewish people and against all of humanity. An atrocity with survivors who are among us today, who, after enduring segregation, discrimination and even the horror of the concentration camps, came to Argentina seeking to rebuild their lives away from persecution and pain.

Today, in addition to honoring the victims who are no longer here, we are fortunate to be able to listen to the survivors that we shelter in our country, who are a testimony of strength and hope. Their life stories are examples and dictate to us the moral imperative to keep memory alive and ensure that atrocities like these are never repeated again.

Argentina, for a long time, was a refuge and a place of destination for all the persecuted peoples of the world. In the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, when people in different parts of Europe and the world were punished by hunger, instability and oppression, hundreds of thousands looked across the ocean and dreamed of a life in Argentina. They knew that a country tolerant of diversity, thriving and full of opportunities awaited them on the other side of the Atlantic; a country with open doors that had already welcomed millions of immigrants from different origins, escaping injustice and persecution, and themselves seeking the promise of a prosperous future. They knew that a place to start again awaited them on the other side of the Atlantic. That was Argentina for a long time, and we enriched ourselves as a result of that diversity.

Each town contributed its qualities, its virtues, its capacity and its talent, and the result was a synergy that for decades enriched all Argentines. The Argentine Jewish community was and is one of the protagonists of this process. And today we are honored that Argentina has the largest Jewish community in Latin America and among the 10 largest in the world.

This new government has the vocation to once again turn Argentina into a free and thriving country, a country that will once again be seen with hope and admiration. A country that once again becomes a place of destiny, that can once again welcome those who flee the yoke of oppression and only seek peace and the possibility of prospering, as it did with the Jewish people.

In addition to being important for me, as it is my first participation as president, Holocaust Victims Remembrance Day has a meaning of special relevance this year for the Argentine Jewish community, the global Jewish community and for the entire free world. . The Holocaust and the Nazis are not something of the past. The acts of aberrant violence that occurred in Israel on October 7 are atrocious and unforgivable. Since the Holocaust, there has not been the coordinated murder of so many Jews en masse on the same day, in a global context of the resurgence of anti-Semitism, we have to be firm in our position of intransigence with terrorism and not look the other way.

During the early years of the Holocaust, many countries in the free world turned their backs on the Jewish people. The world's powers remained inert while the Nazis enacted anti-Semitic and segregationist laws, and began to populate concentration camps. They even closed the doors to exiled Jews who had to choose between exile or torture. Today, many countries in the free world regret that attitude of silence in the face of the atrocities of the Nazis. So that history does not repeat itself, we, who defend freedom, have the obligation to ensure that this does not happen again. However, many countries relapse into the same silence, a silence that stuns. Argentina does not remain silent in the face of Hamas terror and demands the immediate release of all kidnapped civilians, including our eleven compatriots.

In my mandate, I am committed to continuing to work with organizations of the Argentine-Jewish community to achieve a society more respectful of cultural and religious diversity. I also commit to strengthening our diplomatic, commercial and friendship ties with the State of Israel. In fact, in the coming weeks I will be traveling to the Holy Land, which will constitute a new chapter in the brotherhood between our two nations. And also, within the framework of the 30 years since the attack on the AMIA, I commit to continue working to support justice and put an end to the impunity that surrounds this aberrant crime and the tragedy of the attack on the Israeli embassy.

On this day of commemoration and memory, we honor the surviving victims of the Shoah and reaffirm our commitment to defending freedom and rejecting anti-Semitism. This museum is not about the past. Thanks to this museum and this event, we build the present and project a future of hope. Shalom and freedom. Thank you so much.
