Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, after his visit to the Yad Vashe Holocaust Museum, Israel.

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50357-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-luego-de-su-visita-al-museo-del-holocausto-yad-vashe-israel

Thursday February 8, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, after his visit to the Yad Vashe Holocaust Museum, Israel.

PRESIDENT.- Good morning.

I want to share with you a story a story from Talmud. This story took place after the destruction of the second temple at the hands of the Romans. Rabbi Akiva and his colleagues were observing the ruined temple mount and saw a fox come out of the holiest place of the temple. There couldn't be a more discouraging scene than that. Faced with this terrible scene the rabbis cried in mourning, but Rabbi Akiva began to laugh. His colleagues asked him, how could he laugh in the face of such a tragedy? to which Rabbi Akiva responded: There is a prophecy about the destruction that relates that a fox would break into the most holy place. There is also another prophecy that tells that this same place will be rebuilt. Now that I see with my own eyes the first prophecy come true. I laugh with joy and hope as the second prophecy will surely be fulfilled.

It is the first time I visit Israel and therefore this museum. Today my eyes and my heart saw images of one of the darkest moments in the history of humanity. But I see contrast, inside the museum I see: the extreme of destruction and death; while outside the museum I see: the opposite extreme, reconstruction and life. A prosperous land, a country and a society in constant growth. As in Egypt, during the Holocaust they attempted to destroy the Jewish people and freedom. But freedom always triumphs because in the end freedom is what prospers.

The Torah states: "I have set life and death before you; you will choose life." Choosing life is choosing freedom. The Holocaust reminds us of our responsibility and commitment to freedom and the need to defend Human Rights as fundamental pillars of a just society; and it also drives us not to remain silent, because silence is complicit, choosing life is choosing not to remain silent.

As I look at the dark images of the Holocaust, I wonder: where was the free world back then? And today I ask myself the exact same question again: where is the voice of the free world demanding and demanding the release of the more than 100 kidnapped for more than 100 days? Choosing life is demanding the release of those kidnapped.

We must not remain silent in the face of the monstrosity of Nazism. Similarly, we cannot remain silent in the face of modern Nazism, today disguised as the terrorist group Hamas. Choosing life is fighting terrorism. As president of Argentina, I reaffirm my unconditional commitment to a society based on freedom and human dignity, and I reaffirm my request for the release of those kidnapped.

May this museum and the memory of the Holocaust guide us towards a present where silence and indifference in the face of terror are unacceptable. After having witnessed so much death displayed in this museum, such as a wound of all of humanity that is still bleeding, I want to choose life. Choosing to be on the right side of the world and history, Jerusalem is a symbol and banner of life and freedom. We choose life, we choose West Jerusalem as the base of our embassy. With my deep wish for Shalom, thank you very much.
