National Network of the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, on the Day of Commemoration of the 214th Anniversary of the May Revolution, in the Cabildo of Córdoba

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50514-cadena-nacional-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-dia-de-la-conmemoracion-del-aniversario-numero-214-de-la-revolucion-de-mayo-en-el-cabildo-de-cordoba

Saturday May 25, 2024

National Network of the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, on the Day of Commemoration of the 214th Anniversary of the May Revolution, in the Cabildo of Córdoba

Good afternoon everyone. Thank you very much for being here. Many thanks to the authorities of the National Government, to the general secretary of the presidency, the vice president and the ministers of the national cabinet. Thanks also to the authorities of the National Congress, the presidents of the legislative blocks, the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the authorities of the province and all of you who have been present here to celebrate the 214 years of the May Revolution.

May 25 is a historic date for Argentines, but it is an especially important date for us. Because May, for us, is much more than a date on the calendar. Mayo is a doctrine, it is a set of ideas and principles that represent the best of Argentine tradition. May for us is a concept, it is an idea that is summarized in two principles: freedom and democracy.

An idea that arose from the will of a small group of men who 214 years ago decided to break the chains of tyranny and declare that the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata would begin the long path of building themselves into a free and sovereign Nation. Because those men and women who gave their lives for their country in that revolutionary feat knew that in order for us to be free, first, we had to be independent. This tradition had great milestones throughout two centuries of our history. From the revolution itself we can trace a common thread to the sanction of our sacred Constitution of 1853, inspired by the principles of Alberdi and Gorostiaga, two of the great exponents of the Generation of '37, perhaps the most representative of the ideas of May. That generation that included the principles of May in our founding document was the one who marked the north of the country model that our founding fathers imagined.

That is the great Cordoban. It took a lot for him to materialize the vision of those great men from the revolution to the sanction of our Constitution. Argentina was immersed in internal wars between those who defended the ideas of May and between those who wanted to distance themselves from the principles of our founding fathers. It was not until the incorporation of the province of Buenos Aires to the Argentine Confederation, in the year 1860, that we managed to establish the bases and principles envisioned by our Heroes of May. What happened after the incorporation of Buenos Aires into the Nation and the adoption of the May principles included in our Constitution is one of the most spectacular stories of progress in Western history, in the history of humanity.

Argentina, which until 1860 was a country of barbarians, became the leading world power in 35 years. From being an impoverished and illiterate Nation, divided by the sterile disputes of little men who aspired to be monarchs in their land, Argentina now became the darling of the West. The explosion of wealth, growth and progress that the adoption of the May principles generated has not had, nor has it been, parallel in history, perhaps only comparable to the American Revolution and the progress of the United States as a nation.

An entire generation of leaders understood that, beyond personal ambitions, our founding fathers had set a course for our nation and that that course was materialized in a Constitution that was designed, in essence, to defend life, liberty and the private property of Argentines. That generation, which launched the principles of May and which built a world power from a land of barbarians, was the generation that we know today as the Generation of the 80s. A generation that today has given us some of the best exponents of the beginning of May, like Mitre, like Sarmiento, like Avellaneda, like Roca, and also like Pellegrini, the great storm pilot.

Argentina, under the command of these great men, materialized the sacred principle of our preamble, which sought to establish national unity, strengthen justice, consolidate internal peace, provide for the common defense, promote general well-being and, fundamentally, ensure the benefits of freedom for us, for our posterity and for all men in the world who want to inhabit Argentine soil. And boy did they do it!

Unfortunately, at a certain moment in our history, we decided to abandon the principles that had brought so much prosperity and progress to our lands, and we allowed ourselves to be deceived by the siren songs of those who buried Argentina for decades in the deepest of darkness. I am not going to delve here into the reasons for our failure. You've already heard me talk at length about it. It is not our ambition or our spirit to stir up the past, but on the contrary, our only ambition is to lay the foundations for a different future for our children. Because, in essence, we are nothing more than direct descendants of the tradition of the May revolutionaries. We do not defend principles other than those upheld by the great heroes of the Revolution, as well as by the Generation of '37, by the Generation of '80 and by all those men and women in our history who have fought to defend the ideas of freedom. of our lands. In the words of Esteban Echeverría himself, one of the great thinkers of our country: "Mayo's thought is ours; we aim to see it fully realized, whatever the success of our efforts and hopes, whatever destiny awaits us." .

In vain, tyranny, brute force and worries will make wars against us and oppose us with invincible obstacles. Nothing will be able to discourage us; The faith that animates us is incontrovertible. God, the country, the cry of our conscience and our reason impose on us the duty to consecrate our strength and shed, if necessary, our blood for the holy cause of democratic freedom and for the complete emancipation of the land in which we were born. . Therefore, there is no greater, more august and sacred task for us than to consolidate, as our Constitution says, the benefits of freedom for ourselves and for our posterity.

On March 1, in the opening speech of the sessions of the Honorable Congress of the Nation, we stood in front of the Argentine political leadership and offered to everyone, without political or party or ideological distinction, without revanchism, or resentment, without pettiness nor speculation, sit at a table and once again endorse the principles that made our Nation great. I am not here under the May sun in La Docta, Córdoba, the productive heart of our Nation, to reiterate that call, to once again extend our arms fraternally and invite all of us to become aware of the enormous challenge that lies ahead of us: to bring our nation out of decline and put it back on the path to prosperity. That's what I'm doing today.

There can be no legitimate cause to oppose the sacred task of rebuilding our Nation. There is no dispute, no conflict, no confrontation that justifies abandoning the homeland; There is no speculation, no calculation, no admission that justifies the impoverishment of our Nation. That is why I want to announce today, here in Córdoba, not only that we are going to continue working to make the May agreement a reality in Argentina, but also that, after the signing of the May Pact, when the Bases and Laws are sanctioned the fiscal package, the National Executive Branch will create the May Council to complete this sacred task. This May council will be made up of a representative of the national government, a representative of the Argentine provinces, a representative of the chamber of deputies, a representative of the chamber of senators, a representative of the union organizations and a representative of the Argentine business community, and will have the responsibility of working on the bills that will materialize the principles adopted in the May agreement.

Also, I want to take this opportunity to announce that, once the Bases Law and the fiscal package are approved, the national government will move forward with a significant tax reduction. Starting with the COUNTRY tax, a distorting tax that attacks production and economic growth. We know that this decision will be difficult for the coffers of the National State, but we make a commitment to the Argentine people and we are going to begin returning taxes to them.

Just as we are attacking inflation, we committed that every peso collected that ends in a fiscal surplus will be returned to Argentines through tax reductions, because there is no possible destiny for our Nation if we do not remove the weight of the State from our shoulders. to the good Argentines.

We have to thank the daughter because she allowed her to come, because she was having a very important holiday and she allowed Toto to come and be with us, this great Minister of Economy that we have. You realize that we are facing a change of era, right? Look, we have inherited a bomb that combined the worst of the three worst crises in Argentine history: that of the “Rodrigazo”, Alfonsín's hyperinflation and what was the crisis of 2001. In fact, we are making the biggest adjustment, no only in Argentine history, but the largest adjustment in the history of humanity. We received wholesale inflation that in December, being 54%, implied 17,000% annually, and this giant that we have as Minister of Economy is taming it. In the last estimate, it was 3.4%. And all prices continue to fall, and it is incredible that after 100 years of messing with our heads saying that this is not possible and demonizing presidents and ministers who took the responsibility of putting the country in order, today, we are rising in popularity and my minister became a rockstar. That's why I want it to be stated that we have marked it with fire. We will do everything in our power to fulfill the sacred mandate of the ballot box. We are going to return freedom to the Argentines, so that again, just as during the glorious era of May, each Argentine can once again be the architect of his own destiny. Go lions!

I want to begin to finish these words with a brief reflection: don't worry, there will be a recital, but it's not today. Thank you for that Shofar. I am clear that these first five months that have passed have been difficult, they have been difficult for everyone, fundamentally for the majority of Argentines who are heroically putting their all into the ground, but they have also been difficult for other reasons for a good part of the Argentine political, business and union leadership. They have been difficult, not only because we inherited the worst crisis in our economic history and organizing the economy after decades of disaster is not free, but also because a cycle of our political history has closed that, beyond intentions, has been Clearly a resounding failure. But that cycle ended.

I understand, I understand that it is difficult for many protagonists of that cycle to accept the fall of that old regime. I even understand that it is difficult for them to imagine their place in this new Argentina. But I want to reiterate something that I have already said on other occasions and that is that, far from pursuing personal vendettas or petty revenge, and far from prioritizing our personal political interest, we have only one interest ahead of us: the interest of the majority of Argentines, who They chose to live in freedom. Because as Mariano Moreno said: “we want a dangerous freedom more than a peaceful servitude.”

Today we stand facing a new turning point in our history. That is why I come here today to propose a new Argentine dream. That dream is to pick up the gauntlet of Los Héroes de Mayo, lay down partisan interests, personal and political ambitions, and transform ourselves into a generation of Patriots who are encouraged to rebuild the greatness of our Nation. A new generation that has the courage to do what history demands, even if the cost is our own reputation. So that we can, for the first time in 100 years, re-embrace the ideas of freedom, which transformed a poor, empty and illiterate country into a world power in decades. I invite you to undertake a generational feat like those about which story books are written, to be a new generation of May. A new generation of May that makes the noise of broken chains thunder and inaugurates a new era of glory for our beloved Nation.

You are testimony to the hell that is socialism. Thank you Venezuelans.

The Argentine golden century crowned in the celebration of the centenary in 1910 and the century of humiliation that has plunged us into misery. I am inviting you today, here, to inaugurate a new golden era for Argentina, in the name of the revolution of May 1810, in the name of the generation of '37, which imagined a country that assured the benefits of Freedom for all those who want to inhabit our soil, and in the name of the generation of the 80s, who expressed in our land the ideas of the May revolution. Happy National Day!

Finally, I ask God to bless the Argentines and that the force of heaven be with us. Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! Thank you so much.
