Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, together with his counterpart from El Salvador, Nayib Bukele, in a meeting at the Presidential House

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50524-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-junto-a-su-par-de-el-salvador-nayib-bukele-en-una-reunion-en-la-casa-presidencial

Saturday June 1, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, together with his counterpart from El Salvador, Nayib Bukele, in a meeting at the Presidential House

PRESIDENT. - Dear Mr. President. How are you? What a pleasure to meet you in person, really.

BUKELE. - Thanks all the same.

PRESIDENT. - What is it like to be re-elected? (LAUGHTER)

BUEKELE. - It is necessary.

PRESIDENT. – Yes, obviously, when one undertakes reforms…

BUKELE. – There is not enough time, especially when there are profound reforms like the ones you are doing. They require that they start at the right time and then when the fruits begin to be seen, the mandate ends. Then you need to be able to manage the fruits.

PRESIDENT. - Exactly. We're struggling with that too, but fortunately it's working. We managed to lower inflation quickly. The wholesale inflation of traveling to a…

BUKELE. – And also where he was going that many probably don't know because they didn't see him.

PRESIDENT. - Yes, exactly. Sometimes people don't internalize those counterfactuals. We have the feeling that people began to perceive it and in fact, 85% of the population believed that we were going to a hyper and today that number is below 20.

BUKELE. - Excellent.

PRESIDENT. – So, they are seeing it. We make the reference: “They see it or they don't see it.”

BUKELE. - I have seen it.

PRESIDENT. –Then I'm going to bring you one of those hats.

BUKELE. – I have also seen it outside, in the world, in Europe, the United States and here in Latin America, of course.

PRESIDENT. – We notice that from the outside they perceive it better than…

BUKELE. – There is a lot of support, a lot of external noise too, not from the governments, but from the people.

PRESIDENT. - Exactly.

BUKELE. – But from the people of almost all countries, all those who speak Spanish and some not so much, but more especially those who speak our language because they understand better. But there is a lot of noise.

PRESIDENT. – The message of Freedom is coming strong. So, we're doing well, we're on the right track.

BUKELE. - Of course.

BUKELE. – And luckily here it will be a little cooler.

PRESIDENT. – There is air conditioning here, yes.

BUEKELE. – Like Buenos Aires in summer. We are happy to have it and not only us, (INAUDIBLE) too.

PRESIDENT. – That pleasantly surprised me.

BUKELE. – Yes, most of the presidents of other Latin American countries (INAUDIBLE) know him. They do know that when they say the president of that country, people locate, but not in your case. In your case, people know it's Milei.

PRESIDENT. – I was surprised.

BUKELE. - I'm going to tell a story. Yesterday we detected an attempted act of terrorism that luckily was stopped. They sent me the audio of the interrogation and the police officer told him: “Tell me the truth. Why did you do it? And don't tell me it's because of ideology because Milei has already told you what ideology is." A police officer says it, that is, a police officer interrogating a terrorist... that level that reaches the worker, the people, the professionals, at the level of the police, firefighter, soldier, doctor.

PRESIDENT. - What gives it sustainability over time is that people embrace the ideas of freedom. So when it comes from below there is no way to stop it. And because one knows that the logic of the conventional politician, which is not our case, is a vote-getter and the issue is that when people ask for the ideas of freedom from professional politicians, who dedicate themselves to telling people what what they want to hear, even in that case they are going to have to make the turn towards the ideas of freedom. It seems to me that this is the most important achievement. Because if you try to do it from the top down. I mean, sometimes it's a lot harder.

BUKELE. – People are not going to absorb it.

PRESIDENT. – The theme of the cultural battle…

BUKELE. - It's just a new time. Is different. People are now more informed. When politicians say “we are going to give them a gift,” people say “Where are you going to pay for it?”

PRESIDENT. - Exact.

BUKELE. – People no longer eat those stories and apart from that, because of people like you who have managed to provide more information. Now there are the scholars and the people. Many times scholars make speculations that are of no use. And the people are more eager, with a little knowledge and with the experience and experience of the family, of real life, of their business, and they say "Well, yes, in my business no one gives me anything and I have to work." . If I work more, I earn more.” So people are no longer dominated by the political elite, the caste, as you call it. It's not like that. People now have a different mentality and that is the reason why a person like you becomes president of a country like Argentina because they are no longer the same people as before.

PRESIDENT. -There are a couple of anecdotes that I would like to tell you. The maximum achievement that an Economy Minister in Argentina aspired to was not to be insulted. And in less than six months, we have already adjusted 14 points of GDP. Nice fit.

BUKELE. - 14?

PRESIDENT. – 14.

BUEKELE. – They are asking us for a setting of 3, but it has to be with an axe, but with a scalpel.

PRESIDENT. – 14 points is an ax scalpel, a blender, all that. And anyone would have said that it was a political catastrophe. However, the other day we held the event on May 25 and the day I presented the book at Luna Park had already passed. People receive the Minister of Economy as a hero, that is, as a rockstar. And what's more, all the ministers passed by on May 25 and greeted the people and the fascinated people. And the other thing is that the image is already higher at this moment than when we assumed it.
