Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, with Laura Richardson in Ushuaia

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50426-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-junto-a-laura-richardson-en-ushuaia

Friday, April 5, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, with Laura Richardson in Ushuaia

Good evening, although this visit was not originally scheduled. I'm going to start back up because of the sound. Good evening, although this visit was not scheduled in principle, we did not want to fail to take advantage of the opportunity to welcome General Richardson, Commander of the United States Southern Command, to Argentina and express our gratitude for her visit and for the support that the United States government has shown this new administration. Today we are here in Ushuaia to monitor progress in the development of the integrated naval base and continue strengthening the relationship of friendship and collaboration between both countries.

Beyond the political and diplomatic ups and downs that governments of different political stripes have had, both here and there, Argentines as people have a natural affinity with the United States, we both belong to the Western tradition with a culture, a political history and a way of living in a largely shared society, a tradition that has at its base the ideas of freedom, the defense of life, liberty and private property, which were the banner of the founding fathers of both nations when they drew up their first constitutions, is a tradition that should make us proud because these ideas enriched all the countries that embraced them and allowed humanity to evolve by leaps and bounds in the last 300 years, going from having 95% of the world's population in extreme poverty in 1810 to only 5% in the 2020.

Both the North American and Argentine people have in common that when they adopted them they were able to undertake the most important territorial expansions in their histories at the level of the ambition and vitality of their people. Sadly, Argentina moved away from these ideas a long time ago and insisted for a century on values ​​contrary to those of our founding fathers. Today we are embracing them again to reverse 100 years of decline. But I see with concern that the West as we know is at risk, is in danger, in part by turning its back on these ideas. Therefore, today more than ever, it is important to strengthen the ties of friendship between those of us who uphold these values ​​and the way of life they allow. Today we are here to ratify our effort in the development of our integrated naval base. It is a large logistics center that will constitute the closest development port to Antarctica and will make our countries the gateway to the white continent. This work will allow us to develop the local economy, provide a logistics service that allows repairs and support for commercial ship cruises that operate in the South Atlantic. It will provide real logistical support to the scientific development of the various international Antarctic programs and will allow Argentine and world ships and icebreakers to access repairs, resupply or other services they need in Ushuaia before taking the last step of their journey.

This is the way to continue ensuring our sovereign right in Antarctica, a territory in which we were the first country to have planted a flag, the country with the most permanent bases and the only one that has citizens living at the end of the world for more than a year. century, when the Orcadas base was founded in 1904. The lack of a base of this type in recent decades has had the effect that the logistical link between the continent and Antarctica has been our sister country of Chile, causing Argentina to lose a commercial and strategic opportunity for years and weakening our leading role in the South Atlantic.

This is no coincidence. Many Argentine governments of different political stripes in recent decades have talked about sovereignty, but they have done nothing for it. They have done nothing to defend our territorial and river borders from the entry of drug trafficking. They have done nothing to investigate the Islamic terrorism that we have unfortunately suffered. And they have done nothing to defend the territorial integrity of our bad Argentine, which year after year has been invaded by illegal fishing vessels. We are convinced that sovereignty is not defended with isolationism and bombastic speeches, but with political conviction and building strategic alliances with those with whom we share a vision of the world. In a world on a global scale, but with conflicts like the one we live in today, defending sovereignty involves all of us who share the values ​​of the West working together, assisting and supporting each other against the advances of those who seek to limit our freedoms. That is why today the best resource to defend our sovereignty and to successfully address these problems is precisely to strengthen our strategic alliance with the United States and with all the countries in the world that defend the cause of freedom. We are very grateful for General Richardson's visit and for the support that the United States government has decided to provide to Argentina. Let us hope that these first steps are the beginning of a special relationship between both nations, which allows the tree of freedom to extend its roots to all corners of the planet so that no citizen of the world is ever again subjected to the whims of dictators, autocracies. , religious fanatics or communism.

Thank you all very much, may God bless you and may the forces of heaven be with us. Long live Freedom, damn it! Thank you so much.
