National channel of President Javier Milei

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50450-cadena-nacional-del-presidente-javier-milei

Tuesday April 23, 2024

National channel of President Javier Milei

Good night. First of all, I want to tell all Argentines that I understand that the situation we are experiencing is difficult, but also that we have already gone more than halfway. This is the last leg of a heroic effort that we Argentines are making and for the first time in a long time this time the effort will be worth it. Secondly, today I am here surrounded by our economic team, led by Minister Luis Caputo and the president of the Central Bank, Santiago Bausili, to announce something that only a few months ago seemed impossible in Argentina. Contrary to the forecasts of the majority of political leaders, professional television economists and tribune firecrackers, specialized journalists and a good part of the Argentine establishment, I want to announce that the national public sector registered a financial surplus of more than 275,000 during the month of March. million pesos, achieving in this way and after more than almost 20 years, a financial surplus of 0.2% of GDP during the first quarter of the year.

This is the first quarter with a financial surplus since 2008, a milestone that should make us all proud as a country, particularly given the resounding legacy we had to take charge of. This concept, that of fiscal surplus, which seems simply a technical definition that does not fit the lives of Argentines, is neither more nor less than the only possible starting point to end once and for all the inflationary hell that It was Argentina since the fall of convertibility, having become the largest serial defaulter in the world and having the highest tax pressure in the world. The fiscal surplus is the cornerstone from which we build Argentina's new era of prosperity. Having achieved this surplus in Argentina, which has had a deficit 113 of the last 123 years, this government having received a consolidated deficit of more than 15 points of the product, between the Treasury deficit and the Central Bank deficit, and having adjusted 13 points of that 15 In just three months of government, it is simply a feat of historic proportions worldwide.

For this reason, I want to take a few minutes to explain to everyone what we were facing, how we managed to accomplish such a feat and why it is so important for the lives of all Argentines to maintain this course. I have explained repeatedly that when we assumed the enormous challenge of leading our nation we found a country bankrupt and on the verge of hyperinflation. We had a deficit of five points of product in the Treasury and a financial deficit of another 10 points in the Central Bank; We had an exchange gap of almost 200 percent between the official dollar and the free dollar and a monetary surplus similar to what we had before the Rodrigazo, one of the worst crises in our history. Added to this, we had an unrecognized debt with importers for more than 50,000 million dollars and a debt in pesos for the equivalent of 90,000 million dollars. The agreement with the International Monetary Fund was broken and, during the first week of our government, inflation was running at 1.2% daily. That is, we took over the government with inflation at 7,600% annually, with a monetary surplus and a bankrupt Central Bank that would have brought inflation to 15,000% annually. This means that we took office with a monetary surplus worse than the Rodrigazo, a destruction of the Central Bank's balance sheet worse than the hyperinflation of '89 and social indicators worse than those of the 2001 crises, which means that we were facing the worst crisis in the history of our country.

Therefore, since we took office we have focused on two essential issues. First of all, we said that the cause of all the evils in Argentina was the fiscal deficit, since as a result of the obsession of Argentine politicians with spending what we do not have and exhausting the sources of debt and the increase in taxes, they resorted to the monetary issue, which is the only and proven cause of inflation. We took the bull by the horns and announced from the first day that with us the deficit would end and, consequently, the monetary issue and inflation would end. Secondly, we said that given the severity of the situation that we Argentines had inherited, we did not have time for a new gradualist experiment and we moved forward with the most ambitious shock stabilization program in our history. This is how we have managed to achieve financial surplus in just one month of government, a milestone that has no parallel in the history of the Western world. Today we can affirm without a doubt that, despite the opposition of a good part of the economic and political establishment of Argentina, despite those who systematically question our ideas and despite those who directly proclaim our failure to return to power, the government He was right and our plan is working.

This economic miracle of achieving a quarterly financial surplus after almost 20 years, having received the inheritance that we received, responds, unlike what those who want the failure of this government usually affirm, to an enormous extent to what during the campaign we call a “chainsaw” and not, as some say, the liquefaction of public spending, a method that has historically been used in our country. Of the five points of the Treasury deficit that we have adjusted, only 0.4% responds to the loss of purchasing power of pensions, a loss produced by Alberto Fernández's disastrous mobility formula that we wanted to modify in the Bases Law and that we later had to modify by DNU, in the face of the lack of will of some political sectors. The remaining 4.6% adjustment that we have achieved is entirely due to the cut in public spending that politics used indiscriminately to buy wills. An immoral practice that explains much of the economic failure of recent decades. Having achieved the surplus in the way we did, that is, prioritizing the cutting of spending and not the liquefaction of it, is extremely important because it gives sustainability to the public accounts, and because for the first time in a long time the cost of adjustment to the entire Argentine population, but only to those who benefited from the impoverishing model of the past.

To mention some examples, we highlight the 76% reduction in discretionary transfers to the provinces, a toxic system with which the central power distributed resources from all Argentines to a few who submitted to the will of the national government. Also a drastic reduction of 87% in public works, historically linked to the corruption festival that Argentina has been for the last 20 years, where taxpayer money was spent on routes that led nowhere or on works that were inaugurated five times and never ended. In our model, infrastructure works will be financed by the private sector, so that we will effectively have the works that Argentines need, preventing that money from ending up in the pockets of politicians or their State contractor friends. In addition to these measures, we have reduced the structure of the State, eliminating 50% of political positions, closing unnecessary organizations that were used to persecute those who thought differently. We also eliminated advertising, as you may have noticed from the media's reaction, which with other measures resulted in a 22% reduction in the State's operating expenses. That is to say, unlike what many claim, not only has it been possible to end the fiscal deficit, but we have done so in a way that is economically sustainable and morally desirable, since for the first time in Argentina they do not pay fairly for sinners. The fiscal surplus that we have achieved without forgetting those neglected sectors that have been the main victims of the impoverishing model, that is why we have increased, among others, 500% of the First Thousand Days Plan that benefits 70,000 pregnant women; We increased the School Aid Allocation by 311%, bringing it to $70,000; we have doubled the Universal Child Allowance, including the 27% increase in the month of March; we doubled the Alimentar Card, which is assistance that directly reaches 3.8 million people; We increased aid for soup kitchens by 75%, accompanied by measures to guarantee transparency, eliminate intermediaries and put an end to poverty managers. And we launched a system of educational vouchers to assist those families who send their children to establishments that receive state subsidies. 

All this was achieved against infinite ominous diagnoses that were given when we presented our program in December. They said that making an adjustment of more than one point of GDP was impossible, that having zero deficit in the first year was impossible. Well, we are making the impossible possible, even with the majority of politics, unions, journalism and a good part of the economic actors against it. And we are doing it, even with limited margins for maneuver, as a result of the fact that Congress has not yet given this government the tools that all past administrations had. This fiscal result is not just a number in a table of the Ministry of Economy, but the guarantee of a sustainable and consistent path to end inflation forever in Argentina. It is no coincidence that inflation is collapsing and every month the inflation number is lower than expected. Particularly in the month of March, which in theory was going to be the most difficult month for public accounts.

Perhaps the most complete data that shows the correctness of our course is that we assumed a monthly wholesale inflation of 54% in December, which in annualized terms implied 17,000 percent annually and which today is around 5% monthly. We know that there is still a long way to go, but there is no secret: if the State spends more than it collects and finances this shortfall with monetary emission, then there will be inflation. This is the law of history. If the State does not spend more than it collects and does not resort to issuance, there is no inflation. It's not magic. These are concepts that have already been long demonstrated throughout the history of humanity and that in Argentina are rejected for a very simple reason: politicians want to spend a lot because they are the main beneficiaries of that spending. That is over with us. For us, the only task of the State is to protect the life, freedom and property of Argentines, so that each one can be the architect of their own destiny. 

The fundamental requirement to achieve this objective is to guarantee a healthy and stable economic order. Those are the foundations on which the rest of the building is built. A stable economic order for Argentines to associate, enter into contracts, buy, sell, work and trade freely. That is, so that they can fully exercise their freedom and carry out their life project. A stable economy so that Argentines can save and plan their lives because they know that no one will take away the fruit of their work. A stable economy with a free pricing system, with clear signals so that those who undertake or carry out an economic activity can plan and invest, because they trust that things will go well for them. That is the task of the State: to generate the basic conditions for society and private activity to flourish. Therefore, I want to take the opportunity to say to all those who hope that the solution will come from public spending, to all those, both in the world of politics and the economic establishment, who believe that these successes are temporary and that we will eventually have than to start increasing spending, I want to tell you that that will never happen in our government. Because for us inflation is theft and the fiscal deficit is the cause of inflation. Therefore, zero deficit is not just a marketing slogan for this government, it is a commandment.

This means that every peso left over to the National State, far from increasing spending, will be returned to Argentines through tax reductions. We are going to promote a dynamic of savings and tax reduction until Argentina has a level of public spending and tax pressure consistent with that of a country that needs to grow. Because the only way to get 60% of Argentines out of poverty is with economic growth, there is no other way. A growth process that is characterized today by three stages: a first that will be determined by the combination of sectors that expand due to the correction of relative prices, such as mining, oil, gas and the countryside, together with the recomposition of real wages that today has begun to take place hand in hand with lower inflation. On the other hand, the low capitalization of the economy, the result of 20 years of populism determined to destroy capital, generates investment opportunities with very high returns. Finally, the retraction of the treasury implies returning 15 points of GDP to the private sector in the form of savings that will allow financing the investment that will generate genuine economic growth, which will be greatly multiplied to the extent that Congress accompanies us in the structural reform program. , as is the case of the Bases Law. Therefore, do not wait for public spending to come out hand in hand. The era of the supposed present State has ended, it has been a resounding failure that has plunged 60% of the population into poverty and we will never go back to that.

The way out will come through private sector investment and credit, genuinely financed by savings, because that is the only sustainable way to grow. Therein lies the secret of the success of all the developed countries of the world. A State that protects the life, liberty and property of individuals and a thriving private sector that takes risks, bets on the country and generates wealth. I want to close these words by highlighting the enormous task that our economic team is carrying out, led by Luis Caputo and Santiago Bausili, who, having everything against them, decided to put their all into trying to move this country forward, motivated only by the patriotism of knowing that the decisions Those who say present take them. These men that I have at my side, these patriots who had a country on fire in front of them, not only did they not turn their backs, but they ran toward the fire to try to help their compatriots. While others fled, they ran toward the fire. My gratitude and appreciation to them.

Finally, I want to say that none of this could be possible without the heroic efforts of the majority of Argentines who are suffering, but who know that this is the only possible path if we want a better future for our children. There is not a day that goes by that does not amaze me and all those who accompany us, the fortitude with which Argentines are facing this challenge. There is no alternative but to surrender at the feet of a people who have decided to abandon slavery and undertake the long road through the desert towards the promised land, with the commitment that those of us who are part of this government are going to leave our lives to get this country of hell that we have received. Thank you very much, may God bless the Argentines and may the forces of heaven be with us.
