Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, after the presidential inauguration, from the balcony of the Casa Rosada

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50257-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-luego-de-la-asuncion-presidencial-desde-el-balcon-de-la-casa-rosada

Sunday December 10, 2023

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, after the presidential inauguration, from the balcony of the Casa Rosada

Hello everyone. Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! (Shouts of hurrah and president). I want to thank each of you for coming and accompanying me, on this day of so much joy, in the swearing-in of a liberal and libertarian president. (APPLAUSE)

You know that I have built my political career on always telling you the truth, but you know that I prefer to choose an uncomfortable truth rather than a comfortable lie. (APPLAUSE).

That is why I want you to be aware that we are going to begin the reconstruction of Argentina, after more than 100 years of decline, but returning to embrace the ideas of freedom and although we are going to have to endure a period of harshness we will move forward.

That is why today, we good Argentines have decreed the end of the populist night and the rebirth of a liberal and libertarian Argentina. (APPLAUSE)

That's why - before finishing these words - I want us to leave with the words that define our way of thinking, our line of thought, what will be the guidelines of our government, based on the words, of our greatest hero of freedom, Alberto Venegas Lynch (h), who said that: “liberalism is the unrestricted respect for the life project of others, based on the principle of non-aggression, in defense of the right to life, to freedom and property, whose institutions are private property, markets free of state intervention, competition, division of labor and social cooperation, where you can only be successful by serving your neighbor, with better quality goods, to a best price".

Therefore, Argentines, let's stand up and make Argentina great again. (APPLAUSE). Therefore, let us embrace these ideas until we are a powerhouse.

May God bless you and may the Forces of Heaven guide us to create the best government in history.

Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! Thank you so much. (APPLAUSE)
