Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the 30th edition of Agroactiva 2024, in the town of Armstrong, prov. from Santa Fe

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50531-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-la-30-edicion-de-agroactiva-2024-en-la-localidad-de-armstrong-prov-de-santa-fe

Thursday June 6, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation Javier Milei, at the 30th edition of Agroactiva 2024, in the town of Armstrong, prov. from Santa Fe

PRESIDENT. - Thank you very much to everyone present, thank you, Professor Espert, and - as José Luis pointed out - we, at the time of taking office, were on the verge of what was designed to be the worst crisis in Argentine history. Basically, we had a monetary imbalance worse than the previous Rodrigazo; We had a bankruptcy situation in the Central Bank, even worse than the previous one in 1989, the Alfonsín hyperinflation, which - in wholesalers - ended up around 5,000 percent annual inflation. Sometimes you have to mention these things to remember: some lived them; others told them. And, on the other hand, we had worse social indicators than those of 2001.

That is to say, we were facing what was going to be the worst crisis in all of Argentine history, and basically we did not complain about it, because we knew that the possibility of a libertarian liberal becoming president was not going to be in normal pressure and temperature conditions. So we were prepared both for a situation in which the previous government exploded, or if the previous government was successful and left the bomb to us. In that sense, we had different programs planned, and that's how - from day one - we got to work. So that they are more or less of an order of magnitude, we received twin deficits, for 17 points of GDP. And with that one would say: how serious is it or not? Look, when you have 4 twin deficits, in terms of GDP, it is a yellow alert; 8 means that they are going to be hit hard, imagine what 17 is. That was the size of the monster that was coming. As José Luis points out, the price indices, in the first week of December, were running at a rate of 3700% annually, that is, 1% daily. In the second week they accelerated to 7,500%, and if you and we present that there was a possibility scenario that the established inflation was 15,000%, and - indeed - the wholesale inflation, of December, which is what is anticipated retailers, gave 54% monthly; That annualized gives 17,000%. And if you look, in the month of April, wholesale inflation was 3.4%, that is, annualized, 50%. I understand that 50% annually is a lot and obviously it bothers me to have that level of inflation, but let's agree that we are coming from 17,000%.

And achieving a drop from 17,000 to 50%, in 4 months, there are no historical records of having done something like that. Because at the same time, we achieved this without there being a prior outbreak, as in other cases; We achieved it without expropriations, call it - for example - a Bonex Plan; We achieved it without controls or price agreements, and at the same time, we did not fix the exchange rate, which is a mechanism to accelerate the reduction of inflation. Therefore, in terms of achievement, the achievement is enormous, despite whether certain political actors want to recognize it or not.

On the other hand, how did we do it? Basically, we faced those 17 points of twin deficits, where 15 were from the treasury, where 5 were in the Treasury, and 10 were in the Central Bank. In that sense, our economic program, like every economic program, has a fiscal leg, a monetary leg, and an external sector leg.

Regarding the fiscal leg, we went to a zero deficit program. I remember that many who criticize, now, about the composition of the adjustment and so on, said that adjusting more than 1 point of GDP was impossible. We, in the first stage, in fact, thought of going to zero deficit, throughout the year 2024. And yet, Minister Caputo, with incredible courage, managed to get the accounts back on track and already, in the month of January, we were in financial balance. That is, not only in primary balance, that is, the operating balance, but also paying interest. And that has been repeating itself, every month.
May again will also give a surplus and although seasonally, due to the payment of bonuses, the month of June is in deficit, when you take the 6 months together, we are in surplus, that is, the zero deficit remains in place, despite that they want to show that, without considering the seasonality of the month of June, that is, what is reasonable. But in order to get dirty, they are capable of saying that even the zero deficit was broken, when - in reality - the zero deficit still stands, because you have to go

taking how it accumulates and in that sense we are going to end with the surplus accounts, also, in the consolidated of the 6 months.
And that adjustment, which was made in the first stage, when the brakes were put on, was equivalent to the equivalent, if you annualize it, of 7% of annualized GDP. Now we are heading to the levels we needed. I remember they told us: "Oh, but it has a lot of blending and trimming, it has little scissors." So those who said that it was impossible to achieve fiscal balance now started with the issue being the blender and the scissors. Look, the truth is that 90% of the adjustment is a chainsaw: we reduced the number of ministries by half; we eliminate public works; We practically eliminated discretionary transfers to provinces and faced a program of rationalization of social spending like never before, where - historically - we have called for eliminating the managers of poverty, eliminating intermediaries, and boy are we doing it. And we are finding a lot of corrupt people and we are filling them with legal cases.

Therefore, we are not only fulfilling the mandate of the polls to lower inflation; We are fulfilling the mandate of putting the streets in order, a great merit of Minister Bullrich, but we are also fighting without quarter against the corrupt and those who sank this country, who use noble causes to hide behind the poor. . And when you are getting their jobs, you accuse them of being insensitive, when in reality what is happening is that they are crying and yelling basically because their jobs are running out and because they are abstinent from cash.

The other titanic part was the work of the Central Bank, having to face a quasi-fiscal deficit, equal to 10 points of GDP. Several things were done there in terms of monetary policy. On the one hand, we had negative net international reserves of 11.5 billion dollars, almost 12 billion dollars. Furthermore, we had an exchange gap of 200%, there was a relationship of 3 to 1. I remember when, after the PASO elections, I went to live at the Hotel Libertador, because since I was living, in Benavidez, that meant, for At least one hour of travel during non-peak hours, and during peak hours it could take two or three. So, due to a matter of dynamics, I needed to stay in the Federal Capital. And I remember when we were, at the Hotel Libertador, with “Toto” Caputo, with Santiago Bausili, and part of that wonderful team that they have put together. And it had to be said, strictly speaking, we could not get out of the trap, because basically we had the problem of the CIRA debt, which was equivalent to 50,000 million dollars; We had the problem of trapped dividends, we had the problem of paid liabilities. So you can see the level of perversion of what the previous government left behind: they transferred all remunerated liabilities to one day.

This means that if we had, happily as they expected us to do, without being aware of all this, we would quintuple the monetary base, in one day. So, the hyper was evident. They were going to start with their traditional policy of looting and attacking supermarkets and all those things that today some journalists are promoting, which constitutes a crime.

In that sense, they had planned to overthrow the government, for December, so that - in January - they would already be there, and all the cost of the adjustment and making all the inflationary disaster would be paid by us and finish killing - once and for all. - to liberalism. in Argentina. In that sense, we knew that we could not leave because we also had the equivalent of maturing debt in pesos, for 90 billion dollars; We had debt maturities in foreign currency for 25,000 million dollars, mostly with multilateral organizations, but the agreement with the Fund had fallen due to the fiscal disaster. To give you a more or less idea of ​​the disaster that these people generated - over the course of the 4 years - money was issued for 28 points of the GDP, which is the true seigniorage scam, which later translates into the inflationary tax. , what Professor Expert was mentioning - very correctly - before.

Furthermore, they issued 28 points of the GDP, that is, they worked for 28 points of the GDP, because the monetary issue is a scam. But of those 28, they issued 13 points of GDP during the last year. This is a scandal, what they did, it is a scandal. And then I remember that, at that time, economists said that the exchange rate had to be brought to $600, and they had an inflation scenario, the consensus, and everyone repeated that consensus quite a bit.

It's interesting because when we were there, I told them: "Let's set the exchange rate at a level that is similar to that of the market." That, now, I'm going to explain why. But then, given that we were contemplating the Country Tax, it meant that it had to be set at around $800, and they criticized us a lot. That's why now, those same people who criticized us, now those same people who are criticizing us and talking about the exchange rate delay. They had made the scenario with a $600 exchange rate and more inflation, and we put it at $800 and with much less inflation. That's why I say, it's quite funny the serial blunders, which are some economists, who consult so much. This allowed, for example, us to purchase, since the beginning of the administration, 17.5 billion dollars.

I love it when they come and criticize it, those who - in the middle - looted the Central Bank for 45,000 million dollars. At the same time, what has to do with the paid liabilities that generated 10 points of fiscal deficit, in terms of GDP, we have reduced that deficit to 1 point of GDP. That is to say, between the 7, which now remain 6, that we made in the Treasury, and the 9, which we made in the Central Bank, the adjustment is 15 points of GDP. That is, and we are returning 15 points of GDP to the private sector. Where do you see that?
That while, in December, we discussed the hyperinflation that was coming; Today we are discussing mortgage loans, 30 years. If you don't believe that that, in 4 months, is not a lot, I don't know what dimension these people have of what the times are like in the economy.

And another thing that was very interesting was how, then, because I just told you the result of how much we reduced the quasi-fiscal, but it is also very interesting how that was lowered, because what we did was arbitrate the rate in dollars, that is Keep in mind that Argentines, as a result of having been defrauded, from 1935 onwards, with the local currency, tend to want to buy dollars, that is, the economy is well immune. It's not because the Argentinians are bad, it's because we have had a policy, which is a complete piece of shit.

And in that sense, we arbitrated the rate in dollars and that implied a negative interest rate in pesos, but in dollars it was enormous. And they also criticized us a lot. If we had listened to those who said that the interest rate had to be positive, by I don't know how much, in real terms; Today we would have a ratio of paid liabilities 8 to 1. We would be talking about the carry trade and when hyperinflation breaks out. And today, and this is very important for me, so that you take it into account, the ratio of remunerated liabilities on monetary bases is 1.2 times, that is, we have them back on the ropes. But now I'm going to tell you even nicer things, which is why we are very calm, despite what is happening, in the exchange market, where some are taking the opportunity to make their apocalyptic predictions. And I'm talking about serial screwers.

Argentina has a monetary base of 15 billion pesos and remunerated liabilities are 18 billion pesos. Now the interesting thing is that of those 18 trillion pesos, 12 trillion pesos are in the public sector, in public banks. Of those 12 billion pesos, 7 billion are in the Argentine National Bank, where the National State also has 3 and a half billion. Another important part is in Banco Provincia, with the fiscal situation of the Province of Buenos Aires and the way Banco Provincia uses, the liquidity situation is very tight, so they will not be able to touch that. What does that mean? That the problem of remunerated liabilities was reduced to 6 billion pesos, when we have already made placements for 11 or 12 billion pesos, and the market had tried to bid for close to 20 billion pesos. What does that mean? We have the paid liabilities on the ropes.

Why is it important that we have paid liabilities on the ropes? Because while we have remunerated liabilities on the ropes, we are soon going to eliminate them, not having a fiscal deficit, so there is no need to issue to finance the treasury. The day we fix a problem, which the previous government left us, which are called Puts, where basically it is a mechanism by which the fiscal deficit was financed with the International Monetary Fund turning a blind eye and the banks did not want to finance the Treasury. Then, they put him inside the Central Bank. The day we finish fixing that, we are in a position to lift the stocks and we are in negotiations with the financial institutions to end the problem, basically, of the Puts. And the day we finished the Puts problem, the stocks ended.

And furthermore, since we are not going to control prices, the exchange rate is going to be free. But what is interesting, given that we are not going to issue pesos, neither to issue for the treasury, nor to buy dollars, nor to support the financial system, the amount of money is going to be fixed. And when we can determine the fixed amount of money - as we believe that issuing money is a crime - we will send a Non-Issuance Law.

This Non-Issuance Law is going to mean that when there is monetary emission, the president of the Nation, the Minister of Economy, the president of the Central Bank and his entire board of directors, and the deputies and senators, who defraud the people, will go to prison. with the monetary issue.

Now it is true that there are some who can say: "Well, but there were laws here and they enforced them." Yes it's correct. Now it is also true that we are going to give this law the category of crime against humanity, therefore, it is imprescriptible. So, yes, another government will be able to come and - suddenly - go back to broadcasting and go back to what they were doing, and they will surely want to change the law when they want to do that and they will give a lot of very sentimental reasons, as they always do. . But always, when inflation returns, people will remember that liberals are the ones who exterminated inflation, and there - when another government returns - they will remind them that this was an imprescriptible crime, and they will put them all in prison. So we are going to move forward with that, because we are going to definitively, forever, put an end to inflation in Argentina.

On the other hand, another of the things that we knew was going to happen is that, clearly, when carrying out a stabilization program, that generates an increase in savings and given the conditions that Argentina generates, there was not going to be a counterpart of investment. Therefore, we knew that there was going to be a drop in economic activity. The fact of having set the exchange rate very similar to the market rate narrowed the gap and by reducing the excess demand for foreign currency, it reduced the excess supply in the bond market, thereby lowering the exchange rate. interest. In fact, we received a country risk of 2900, we reached 1100 and today, thanks to politics, the only thing they want to do is break, because they know that, if this works, the jets will not return again. So, now the country risk is at 1500, but now, - believe me - we are going to defeat it too.

Aside from that, one of the things we did was double the AUH. In fact, the AUH is at the highest level since it began to be awarded. If we add the Alimentar Card, there has never been so much assistance to the vulnerable sector of the economy. In addition, we provided assistance to the middle class by delivering supplies and financing school fees. And although we fell in the first quarter, we fell much less than we should have fallen in conditions of the adjustment we are making. And the most interesting thing, and that is what has politicians so nervous, because not only is inflation going down, economic activity has begun to rebound. When you start to look at the economic indicators, it is true that - compared to the previous year - they are falling, but when you look at the seasonally adjusted month by month, the vast majority of the indicators are rising very sharply. They want an example, for example, credit.

Credit is growing 650 percent - compared to the previous year - and is growing 45% - compared to last month - that is, the economy is rebounding and is going to rebound strongly. So, if today, despite having made the biggest adjustment in the history of humanity, my image continues to be at the levels of when we took office, when the voting intention of the space is around 55%, that is, with which, if we went to a general election, we would win in the first round by scandal. They know that the jets are nervous, the caste is afraid and so afraid that the only thing they do is want to sabotage this government.

One of the clear examples… yes, that's me. Why would it be? It's not you, it's not you, but wait a little, I'm finishing the conference. So, look at this: what the fiscal degenerates, who are in Congress, do. They are constantly sending laws to try to sabotage the backbone of the economic program, which is the fiscal surplus. They gave a sample of them yesterday. But also, they couldn't stop showing that they are an unclean caste, because they raised their allowances by 80%. That is to say, to pass the structural reforms, which good Argentines need, they have been taking six months, but to approve the increase for them, they do it quickly. How efficient are they when they want with theirs?

And as if all this were not enough, the issue of eliminating privileged retirements was blocked. So I don't give a damn, because I'm going to give up my privileged retirement because you know what, if I do my job well, then I'll be able to continue working in the private sector when I leave this position. But of course, these are used to making a mess, for the last 100 years, so they have insurance, which is privileged retirements. No, enough, if you did things wrong, you deserve to starve yourself, for being a son of a bitch, and that is why they must be eliminated.

Regarding the willingness to reverse the government's economic program for the opposition and for the Koreans of the center, the reality is that, if they go against the fiscal balance, we are going to veto everything that goes against the fiscal balance. I am not going to deliver the zero deficit in any way and if they still look for a mechanism to continue breaking the fiscal balance, I am going to lower public spending further, until it hurts them more in politics. So have no doubt that the zero deficit is here, it is here to stay.

Finally, in macro terms, the exchange rate jumped. Now, the reality is that we maintain that inflation is always, everywhere, a monetary phenomenon that is generated by an excess supply of money, either because supply rises or because demand falls. And that causes the purchasing power of the peso to fall and all prices - expressed in monetary units - to rise. The dollar is another price of the economy, so why does the dollar rise? So, one says: "Well, the reality is that there is room for demand to fall, in January." Look, the truth is that there is not, because when you take the monetary base - during the 21st century - on average it was 9-10 % of GDP and today the monetary base is 2.8 of GDP. There is not much room for the demand for money to fall, in fact, it says: "Well, but there are those who are paid and they could...", suppose that we take the total of the paid ones, which we already know would not be correct. Even if we took the total of those paid, we are at 6% of GDP.

Therefore, it does not have to do with a demand problem, so the question is: does it have to do with a supply problem? No, if we are not issuing to finance the treasury. So why is this happening? Basically, it happens because of the degenerate prosecutors, who are in Congress. What happens when fiscal degenerates are trying to torpedo the fiscal surplus? What happens is that the perception is that, if they achieve it, the solvency condition of the State falls, the government falls. And, therefore, the price of bonds falls. And why is this important? And that is what you see today with a country risk of 1500. Why is this important? Because you, today, as there is capital control, you do not buy dollars directly, you do it indirectly. And in that sense, the indirect mechanism to do so is bonds.

So, what you are seeing today in the price of bonds is the problem of fiscal degenerates trying to break the fiscal balance and it is not due to a monetary problem. When you see the May numbers, when you see the June numbers and you see that the fiscal result is granite and we are not going to deliver the fiscal result, automatically, the numbers, the bond numbers are going to fall into place and they will automatically fall into place. the exchange rate. That is why we are not nervous about what is happening with the exchange rate. And it's quite funny to all the apocalyptics, serial screwers, who want things to go wrong so they can validate the fart models with which they always screwed up.

So the question is: OK, do we have the macro in order or are we sorting it? So the question is, how are we going to grow? The first thing is, first, we are rebounding and that will manifest itself in an improvement in activity and employment. In fact, real wages - for two months now - have been rising and if you look at it - in terms of food - they have been rising much more, so the number of poor indigent people is going to have to start going down when they are taken the new measures, but apart from that, not those that still remain and that have the impact of the first semester. So, we are seeing the rebound, in fact, it is being seen. Another element that will enhance economic growth is that increasing savings by 15 points of GDP will translate into investment.

At the same time, an economy that has been under populism for 20 years and that destroyed capital - wildly - means that the real returns of the economy are very high. Therefore, the economy has a lot of room to grow just because of the destruction of capital that occurred. So, that is what is going to explain how the economy is going to begin to rebound and grow in the short term. And on the other hand, no matter how much it seems like there are setbacks, the Base Law has a chance of coming out and the DNU is working. So, more or less, so that you have an order of magnitudes, the largest structural reform that was carried out, in Argentina, was carried out by Menem, in the 90s. If you take the DNU and the Base Law as it is today, this reform It is eight times larger than the one that was made. It is the largest reform in Argentine history. And then they say that we do not have an economic program, which seems burdensome to me and I am going to put it quantitatively. These reforms imply that we are going to rise - in economic freedom - 90 positions. That is to say, we would stop being a country that was on its way to becoming Venezuela, and we would be on its way to becoming a country similar to Germany, or France, or Italy.

But I want to tell you more: our goal is to be the country with the greatest economic freedom in the world. For example, something like what Ireland did at the time, which, being the most miserable country in Europe, today has a GDP per capita 50% higher than that of the United States, or things like what Switzerland has, or what Luxembourg. But since we have pending - after this - 3,200 more structural reforms, we are going to become the freest country on the planet. And that is going to mean that, in a period of 30 or 40 years, we are going to become the most prosperous country in the world, and that is the plan.

And finally, the most interesting thing is what we are going to do when the economy starts to grow, because there are going to be many fiscal resources there. Obviously, the degenerate prosecutors, what do they want to do? They will spend it, but our idea is that when the fiscal surplus begins to occur in a sustained manner, return it to the good people, to those who work, to those who truly are the great heroes of Argentina; return it to them with tax relief.

And, obviously - as Professor Espert said - in our sights, we have the Country Tax, we have withholdings and we have the tax on bank debits and credits, which are super distorting. And - if you want - the greatest testimony that I want to lower them - indeed - and that I am going to lower them, when the economy begins to recover, do you know what it is? I never wanted to participate. Because if I had participated, we won't be able to get them anymore. So, the best testimony I have to give you, and as the best proof that - indeed - when the economy begins to grow and the fiscal surplus begins to be large, we are going to be lowering taxes, basically. Because? Because I never wanted to share them. So this is going to give a new push to economic growth and - without a doubt - if we continue embracing the ideas of Freedom, in 35 years we will be one of the great world powers. Thanks a lot.
