Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Libertad Foundation dinner

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50454-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-la-cena-de-la-fundacion-libertad

Thursday April 25, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Libertad Foundation dinner

Hello everyone. If not, it's not me, well good night. Many thanks to the Libertad Foundation for allowing me to be part of this meeting, which was also honored by so many personalities such as President Macri, President Lacalle Pou, President Aznar, Dr. Bullrich, Genia Patricia. So, obviously when you have to choose a presentation, I say you have to get used to and adapt to what the needs of the moment are and to the place where you are, and given the discussion let's say that today it is so present in Argentina about the topic of inflation, about the discussion of the exchange rate and that type of issues and since I am in front of a qualified audience, an audience that is used to receiving economic analysis, the intention of this talk is basically to tell you what our vision of how to face and attack and exterminate once and for all the problem of inflation in Argentina, which has a clear start date which is when that disastrous institution that is in Reconquista 266 called the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic was created.

Therefore the presentation is called “Money, prices, monetary policy and inflation.” Another thing that I discovered in the interaction with different local economists, is that the vast majority of local, professional and renowned economists, have no idea about something so important in this, which is the problem of the nominal anchor and because they basically do not understand which is money. That is to say, Keynes in that disastrous treatise called “General theory of occupation, interest and money”, caused such great damage that we still, let's say, continue to inherit some problems of defining the conceptual framework, which makes us make so many mistakes and economists so often. In fact, just in the car we were reviewing a joke that said “the last five recessions, how many did economists predict? Nine". I mean, beyond the jokes about this, then I say, it is fundamental and key to understand what money is. In other words, what one realizes is that they discuss the problem of inflation and do not understand what money is. 

There is the colossus of, there is Federico Sturzenegger. What a pleasure, I just saw it. Thank you, Federico. So, basically what I'm going to do is an introduction to what money is and from there, let's say, I'm going to derive the monetary nature of inflation, I'm going to demystify some kind of issues that are going around, and then I'm going to discuss the current situation, about the enormous work that Luis Caputo, Santiago Bausili and their entire team are doing, of whom I am truly, deeply proud.

So, the first thing is, if there was no money, what would the economy be like? Well, the economy would be a barter economy where goods are exchanged for goods. Now, in a small society that is not a problem in principle, but in a larger society it is a problem. Because you have a problem called double matching, that is, you have to find someone who wants to buy what you have and at the same time let's say match, that is, who also wants what you have.

Therefore, that process becomes very, very difficult. But regardless of the fact that this process is extremely difficult, a second problem appears, which is the problem of indivisibility. Because yes, I may want to buy bread, the
baker wants to buy the economic analysis service, but let's say, that is, the number of kilos of bread that he has to give me so that I can talk to him for an hour about economics, it doesn't map, at least today And after my time as president, much more so, because I have to continue working afterwards. So now, faced with that situation, the man did not stay crying. I mean, it's not that he started crying in a corner, I say, and he was crying because of the problem of double coincidence and indivisibility. He looked for a way back. And he looked for a way around it and discovered that there were goods that were exchanged much more than others. That is to say, then, it is not that he bought those goods that were exchanged a lot because in principle he wanted to have them, but that he acquired them so that he could use them indirectly to buy other goods.

That is, the idea of ​​the good of indirect exchange. That is to say, and when the good of indirect exchange appears, what is appearing there is, precisely, money. That is, that good that acts as a good of indirect exchange, precisely there we find the appearance of money. So, for example, when man was a nomad, what was the first money that appeared? the cattle. Because? Because cattle was what they ate and since they were nomads, it allowed them to move with the cattle. Consequently they used cattle as currency. After man became sedentary, they discovered that there were other, more efficient ways to use money. One of the things that man consumed a lot was bread. So what did they begin to use as an indirect exchange good? The wheat. So it is not that he bought or sold wheat because they were interested in wheat per se, but, in reality, they used it a lot because it was an indirect exchange good. Now, not only that. Then, for example, I say when one says the term salary. And why was it salary? Because basically it was paid in salt. Why was salt so important? Look, if there were people who did very well in ancient times, it was the people who carried spices everywhere, because it allowed them to taste something in their food. Have you noticed what it's like to eat food without any seasoning? It's filth. I don't know what's funny, but try to do it. It's a horrible thing, especially look at what happens to them when they go on a diet. There are some diets that are a little more complicated, especially the public spending diet.

(Applause)

More than applause, I say, we should be rejoicing that for the first time we are hitting hard and evenly at public spending, we are fulfilling Rothbart's dream. It's amazing, isn't it? Let's say, a real drop of 35% in public spending, come on guys, that's getting the State out of the way. That is, the true fiscal pressure is the size of the State. If we make such a cut, I'm giving them back crazy freedom.

What's more, returning to the topic of salt, why the tradition of giving the salt to the other person, of putting it and not giving it directly to their hand. Because they say that otherwise it would be bad luck. And how was the payment issue, I mean he came to the guy with a sack, imagine, then he paid him with a sack of salt. Imagine if when you were handling the salt, it fell and it was bad luck. It was an instant loss for sure. In that context, that's why let's say that the salt was supported and weighed and there the exchange was made. There have been other currencies, such as tobacco. What's more, there is a story, Milton Friedman tells a story, in one of his conferences, that says that in Germany, let's say, after the Second War, when hyperinflation came, they used nails, they used cognac and he says that it is the definition of liquid money. most liquid I had ever known. In other words, he had found the real M1. I tell economist jokes, don't worry. The next talk I come with the subtitles.

Now what was the problem with all that kind of money that had appeared? That they were merchandise, that is, they had a use value as merchandise, but they also served to make transactions then, and that acted as money. Or let's say, when we work in microeconomics and we start in general equilibrium, we talk about numeraire.

Now what is the problem with that type of coins? Good that one does not live a single period. In other words, they could act as a unit of account, they could act as a generalized means of payment, but what happens? It did not preserve value. And since the economy, let's say, fortunately is not of a single period, but is intertemporal, which includes several periods, it degraded over time. That is, as if it had a negative interest rate. So what did man discover, man looked for metals. And this is how two currencies appeared, which is gold for large transactions and silver for smaller transactions. So, see the most important thing about all this, that is, why I make this whole story about why money appears, how money appears, to understand that money is a good of indirect exchange.

And since it is an indirect exchange good, what does it mean that its demand is a derived demand. That is to say, I do not demand money to take it to the wooden suit, I demand money to make transactions. And basically
I want to use that money to finance a path of consumption throughout my entire life. I mean, that's why I use money. Now, if I then money has that connotation, that characteristic. What then does the demand for money depend on? And that's where we start to run into these problems. Because if I am defining it this way, the demand for money has as its counterpart the intertemporal path of consumption. That is, my consumption program throughout my life. Now, if I start to derive the consumer demand for each of these goods, which is what will determine the counterpart to the demand for money, what that demand for consumer goods depends on. And in the end, this demand for consumer goods will depend on what, rest in peace, said Robert Lucas Junior, which depends on the deep parameters.

That is, it depends on preferences, it depends on technology and it depends on resources. I say, therefore, if the endowments are given, the preferences are given and the technology, let's say, is a case, let's say, without making any assumption about technological progress that is also given and if you want to assume it, let's say, it they are going to put inside the model. Deep down, as a physicist would say, under normal conditions of pressure and temperature, the demand for money should be an absolutely granite thing, which has as a counterpart my intertemporal consumption path that depends on the deep parameters that are given data.

This is, this is a very interesting topic because, I mean, what happens. Because, if then the real demand for money, which is what I just said and without the presence of that nefarious entity that issues pieces of paper, I say, it should be quite a hard, granite thing. And that should be equal to the actual balances. That is, the amount of money divided by the price level. So, notice that there you find the monetary theory of inflation, because you are going to determine that the price level is going to be given by the quotient between the supply of money and the demand for money. And when you increase the amount of money, what you are going to do is determine the price level. This is what is called the nominal anchor problem. What's more, when you derive the demand functions for each of these goods, as they are homogeneous of zero degree, you determine the relative prices and by determining that money is the currency, what the Central Bank does is that all the prices remain determined in money. That is, it determines the nominal scale of the economy. That is, the famous nominal anchor. That is, the way in which I am anchoring the price level is by setting the amount of money.

So, if since we took office in December the monetary base has been constant, despite the fact that we bought 15,000 million dollars, despite the fact that the puts skyrocketed, despite the fact that we had to pay the remunerated liabilities, the contraction by BOPREAL and the contraction by The fiscal surplus has been such that it compensated for all that and left the monetary base constant, which is why inflation is falling. Then I will continue with the topics that have to do with current events, but, that is, when some professional economists say, I assume that some say, out of ignorance, others because of resentment, another because, let's say, that is, if they wanted to commit suicide, they would do it. The best thing they could do is throw off the top of their ego. I mean, they would be a fried egg, below. “There is no stabilization plan,” and how does the inflation rate go down? what is it, magic? No. We leave the amount of money constant.

What's more, I say, when you configure a stabilization program, it basically has three central elements: you have a fiscal policy, you have a monetary policy and you have an exchange rate policy. At the exchange rate level, we find ourselves with a gap of 200%. It is incredible, because some economists appear saying “the exchange rate delay”, those same ones who say that there is a problem of exchange rate delay are the same ones who said that the dollar should be set at 600 and they had a higher inflation hypothesis. We set it for the equivalent of 1000 and we have less inflation. I mean, they could be at least I don't know, coherent to be intellectually not so dishonest.

That's the first one, one of the things. The other part is fiscal policy, zero deficit, what did they say? “No, it is impossible to achieve zero deficit in 2024” and we began to look at the numbers and he said and we spoke with Dota and he told me, it seems to me that we reached zero deficit in March. So that. I put on nobulis. Poor Guillermo Francos suffering. How about Guillermo, how is he?

Throw out the Base Law, do what you want, overall with this, let's say with the program, we are going to achieve all this despite the politics and boy are we doing it. And what do we find? We achieved what was impossible in the first month. In January we reached financial equilibrium, that is, we had a primary surplus and we also paid interest, that is, we reached financial equilibrium. So, what did they say, let's say the bunch of screwers, instead of acknowledging that they screwed up, "Nah, well, it's very little chainsaw and a lot of blender." I mean, ask what happened to public works. Ask what happened to discretionary transfers. Ask what happened to the plan intermediaries. Ask what happened to the number of public employees.

It seems to me that the chainsaw is a little bit bigger, in fact, most of the adjustment is chainsaw and I'm going to tell you something, I mean, sometimes the blender does become permanent, also in chainsaw, I say let's be clear then.
The final chainsaw is a matter of time, until we finish stabilizing. What's more, those who say: “No, well, but you are not liberals raised taxes.” Oh, shall we raise taxes? I usually use a very interesting example to understand the theft that is monetary policy, which is the case of an economy that makes transactions in gold. Suppose we have an economy that makes transactions in gold coins and a couple of my friends appear here, a physicist appears and a chemist appears and they bring me the formula to convert plastic into gold, then what do we start doing? We started buying plastic. So what do we start doing? Let's start counterfeiting gold. The question is, if I had that gold stored in my house, or I have a self-esteem problem and then I want to boast that I have a whole house of gold and it is not gold, let's say it is fake gold, then, I grab and I do all that. I mean, up to that point it's not a problem because I'm not committing any scam, up to that point there's nothing, that is, the only thing I'm doing is falsifying."

The problem appears when I put that fake gold into the economy as if it were good and when I do that, what is the problem? I am increasing the supply of gold and by increasing the supply of gold, the purchasing power of gold falls, that is, all prices expressed in units of gold rise, what is that called? Inflation. That is, where the real scam is not inflation, the real scam is seigniorage. The monetary issue is the real scam, because I ask you a question, if you had a growing economy and the Central Bank issues according to the growth in the demand for money as a consequence of the growth of the economy, assuming that consumption was a fraction income constant, I mean like this everything is perfect in terms of the structure I used.

So what is happening? Inflation is zero, is there no scam there? yes there is a scam, yes there is a scam. So, I say, of course when they want to calculate the inflation tax it doesn't work. Because when they calculate the rate, it gives you the inflation rate divided by one, plus the inflation rate. So, since it is zero, then, it doesn't work. In reality, there is a scam. Why is there a scam? because if they had not issued, there would be deflation, that is, deflation is something healthy. That is to say, deflation, I mean, in fact, for the classicists who dedicated themselves to looking at what was happening in the economy all day and then writing, for them they were not a problem. That's why I highly recommend a wonderful book by Philip Bau called Defending Deflation. What happens is that when there is deflation, that is, there are some who win and there are others who lose. Well, let's say, those who lose have more exposure and well, of course, I say then, deflation is
bad. But it is not bad because it actually derives from economic growth itself, it implies returning resources to the people.

This means that the real scam is the monetary issue. This is very interesting, because the delinquent government that preceded us, in the four years of government, issued 28 points of the GDP, a bunch of jets. Not only that, because of those 28 points of GDP, in the last year they issued 13 points of GDP. And if you consider between, let's say, the direct issuance and the indirect issuance, and if you consider that the monetary base, not the broad one, but the basic monetary base is 2.6% of the GDP, they left us implicit, only in that a multiplication of the price level by five times. Not only that, they also left us with a bankrupt Central Bank, where there was a ratio of paid liabilities of four times to one. Not only that, but they also left us with monetary surplus. Of course, when you did the entire, let's say, basic account, that meant that we were going to find an inflation of around 15,000%.
I mean, that boy, the Soviet one, the one who is in the Province, “That was an exaggeration,” he said, “that doesn't happen.” And the reality is that when we, let's say, entered December, in the first week, prices were growing at 1% daily. That annualized gave 3,700% annually.

They say: “No, but if I add 1 plus 365 times, it gives me 360.” In other words, they don't even know the calculation of what inflation is like, which is an exponential. Here we are. Then when you take the first two weeks, because the previous government had left a lot of price controls and released them all just before we took office. There inflation accelerated to 7,500% annually. And there are some cheeky people, there are colleagues, intellectually dishonest, who deny that there was inflation, a planted hyperinflation, who deny that there was a potential for hyperinflation of around 15,000%. And when you take the wholesale inflation, the wholesale inflation for the month of December was 54%, that annualized gives 17,000. That is, we assumed a wholesale inflation rate running at 17,000 percent and that inflation was running at 17,000 percent, that is, at 54% monthly, given the enormous work that
my entire team is carrying out, today that wholesale inflation is 5%. That is, we lowered it by 90% at the rate at which the inflation rate grows and there is no doubt that we are going to exterminate it. So. I had a whole part where I fought with Keynes, but I'm going to leave it out. Yes, because let's say I get a little dense, intense. I'll try to maintain form. So, first thing, then it's interesting.

Because, clearly, we have a stabilization program, a disinflation program. Because inflation goes down for a reason. It's not that it goes down by magic. What's more, there is another central element of why the inflation rate falls. One of the enormous things, which is worthy of admiration, is the work that Santiago is doing at the Central Bank and his entire team, Santiago Bausili. Why is this so important? Because, look, when you have a bankrupt Central Bank, which means that the liabilities are worth more than its assets, the only way you correct the bankruptcy, traditionally, is through a tremendous inflationary flash, in such a way that the liabilities currencies shrink. And the more bankrupt you are, the inflation rate you need is much higher to balance your net worth. So, to the extent that you have a price level today, to the extent that you are going to a bankruptcy of the Central Bank and you need to liquefy that, it implies higher prices, higher inflation. So when you take the price level that leaves the balance of the Central Bank in balance, with respect to the price level it has today, you join that, you give them a line and the slope of that line is the inflation rate. So, as you begin to clean up the Central Bank's balance sheet, what you are lowering is the inflation rate. This is a very interesting topic. That is to say, the work that the Central Bank does is essential, sanitation is essential to lower the inflation rate.

But what do you want me to say if there was someone who said "you can't dollarize if there are no noodles and there is no tuco, and you invite me noodles with tuco." She was wrong, but it's easier to dump dump trucks of manure than to admit your mistake. In fact, one of the things, one of the things, look, let's say if those who are murmuring ate the glass, I'm sorry. Life is so. In fact, notice that we had several dollarization proposals. As we moved forward, some fell, others remained standing. The only one that remained standing is the one that we had proposed, which was to take over the liabilities of the Central Bank. Forgive the assets of the Central Bank, transfer them to market securities, which obviously
have a huge discount, yes, and with those securities put them against the dollars, and making all the corrections that those securities rose in price and that offered a huge business. Well, I warn you that when we took over, the bonds were at 18 dollars, put 20 to round up. Today the bonds are above 60, we receive the country risk at 2900, today we are at 1150. That is, in addition, we are experiencing a drop in the country risk like rarely seen in Argentine history. And you know what? This predicts that the economy will rebound in the future. That's why, let's say, they are so nervous. That is why they use noble causes, to try to destabilize a government because they know they are going to lose and they will not come back.

Therefore, notice that when we received that Monumental deficit of 15 points of GDP, 5 in the treasury and 10 in the Central Bank, today, between the adjustment that we made in the treasury and the adjustment that the Central Bank has made, of 15 points we lowered it to 13. Not only that. When the year ends, we will have returned 15 points of GDP in savings to the private sector. Do you want to know how the economy is going to grow? It's going to rise like a diver's fart. “But there is no nominal anchor”, thank goodness. Well, that, let's say, then there is an anchor, let's say the case of the nominal anchor that when you set the amount of money. Obviously it is not the only way to anchor. There are things that really seem funny to me, no. Because economists come and say “no, well, because there is no comprehensive plan, because it should define the productive matrix for the next, let's say I don't know, 5 years.” What do they want a five-year plan? I am not Leontief, I am not a communist. I am a libertarian liberal, I believe in freedom, I believe that businesspeople have to determine that, not a fatally arrogant bureaucrat from an office. Or when they say “no, well, but you should set the path of prices and wages.” I mean, back guys, I'm a liberal, I believe in the price system. That is, in order to determine, to be able to know what the price vector is, you should, in turn, know the preferences, the technology and the provisions.

But if you also want to do it intertemporal, you have to do it from today until the end of history. And furthermore, with which they have to know how the population is going to move, how, let's say, preferences are going to move, how, let's say, technology is going to move. What's more, things that you previously believed were not in the endowments become endowments, or look if we say we conquer Mars and bring resources from Mars, there are a lot of questions. In order to get all of that right, one would have to be omniscient, omnipresent, and omnipotent. That is, they should be God. I mean, look, no matter how much it may bother politicians, they are not God. I would tell them that they are worse than the average human being. Because when, look, when I entered politics, let's say, and after a while, a journalist asked me, in a somewhat aggressive way, he told me "well, but you who entered politics and live complaining about politicians, what think now”, then I told him that I was wrong, he told me “he saw that in the end they weren't that good”, no, no, I was wrong for the worse. They are much worse than I imagined. That is why the system of freedom works much better,
because let's say, that is, say, saying that they are monkeys with a knife is insulting the monkeys. So how am I going to be setting prices. “No, you have to set the price path”, they are crazy. I am liberal. I get hives doing that.

So, not only that. Needless to say, I imagine that they could start looking for the reports they receive from many professional economists who said that the interest rate had to be set, real positive. Today the ball of remunerated liabilities, we would have issued four monetary bases in the last three months. The problem is when the ball explodes, Federico will not have appeared with the LEBACS, then with the LELIQS, and from now on they would be the paid liabilities. That, by the way, the previous government was so friendly that it left us with all liabilities paid in one day. As you will see, it was easy. It's so easy from the stands. The other day I was talking to Professor De Pablo and I recognized a mistake of mine, I mean from a long time ago, and the mistake was, I had entered my Rothbarthian Path, so I was intense. And every time we talked about economic policy, I kind of got angry because I saw it as very condescending. Professor De Pablo interviewed all the economic ministers and presidents of the Central Bank from the middle of the 20th century onwards. That created a very particular situation for me. In fact, from having lunch three or four times a month, we became somewhat more distant, to preserve the friendship. Even though we had watched the World Cup together, we had spent holidays together. Professor De Pablo, with wisdom, surely said “go, learn and come back.” And the other me admitted my mistake, because one of the things that I always tried to do as an analyst was try to incorporate restrictions. Well, now I discovered that there are more of them. I mean, it's a little bit more difficult. So, I say, from the stands it's pretty easy. Because apart from that there is something interesting, which is, you know what, look, you are going to see an Argentina match, the Argentina match is very nice, the flags, the chants, everything you want, it is fabulous. But the goals are scored by Messi. That is, if you want to win, let's say, you have to start scoring goals. In other words, and the truth is that with my team I feel that I have several Messis in the team. I feel that Toto is Messi, I feel that Patricia is Messi, I feel that Sandra is Messi, I feel that Diana is Messi, I feel that each one, I think that Guillermo Messi, that all of them are a Messi in their position, so to speak. The truth is that I am very happy with the excellent team we formed.

Let's say, to do this you have to get involved. You have to get involved. Otherwise the orcs are going to rule us. And another thing that I recommend, let's say, to keep in mind that the orcs understand it perfectly, but it seems that we liberals are not so alive and we do not realize, power is a zero-sum game. If we have it, they don't have it. And yes, they understand that. López's bags may have it and they will continue to deny it. In other words, you are going to find him struggling and you are going to deny it and we start “no because in reality” as an idiot said, “this is not a liberal government because it did not release drugs.” Or that we do not lower taxes and it happens that we are returning 15 points of GDP to Argentines in terms of non-seigniorage. That is to say, it is good if there is a substitution of taxes, but let's say on the net, let's say, public spending in real terms is falling. Let's say what Rothbard would say, the real pressure of the State is falling. I mean, I mean, I'm charging less. Let's say, that is, basically I'm going to have less taxes, because I have a smaller state. The other way to have a nominal anchor is by using what is called an inflation targeting system. But, I say, there, let's say, the anchor is a more complicated thing, because strictly speaking, if you want to think about it in terms of amount of money, you don't have it. Why? What is the problem. Because if I'm setting the interest rate, then I'm not setting the amount of money, and if I'm not setting the amount of money, I can't set the price level. So, I have what is called a nominal anchor problem. And that is resolved, in what way. When I have inflation expectations, by having, let's say, the expected prices determined, then if the expectations are anchored I can determine today's prices, I can determine the demand for money and by determining the demand for money I determine the quantity of money and the system is anchored. Of course, let's say, you have to have expectations anchored. Look, I believed that having a Central Bank that did things well, let's say, was possible. What's more, my great hope was that when we had the best Central Bank in history, which was the one that Federico presided over, I believed that we could have a Central Bank until December 28, 2017. Let's say, they took it and that's how it was. which ruined the return of Kirchnerism. So, in that sense, let's say the Central Bank, it's only a matter of time, I'm going to catch it.

Beyond this, what I want now is to basically finish what we have done. How is it that we are managing to lower the inflation rate and basically return, as I said before, to a zero deficit program, where we fully attack public spending, where, obviously, in the first part we overreacted and the equivalent adjustment. Did you hear about the puppet the other day? It was incredible. Saying “oh what an insignificant adjustment.” He left a deficit of more than 5 points of GDP, we took it to zero two positive and if you take it in annualized terms, we made an adjustment of 7 points of GDP, and the cheek says “insignificant result.” I tell you that, in the last 123 years of history, Argentina had a deficit of 113. It means that what we are doing was not so easy. On the other hand, the consolidation of the Central Bank meant that from having a quasi-deficit of 10 points of GDP, let's say, today it is already at four and is on its way to three. That is, when the next inflation rates come and we lower the rate again, we are going to add another point.

So, when you calculate what we adjusted in the Treasury and what we seek in the Central Bank, we have already adjusted from 15 points to 13 points. There is no historical record in the history of humanity of an adjustment of such caliber in three months. But not only that, but if you look, both the analysts and the International Monetary Fund, when we arrived they were expecting an inflation of 250%. I mean, for Argentina. In an optimistic case. Well, today the Fund expects Argentina's inflation this year to close at 150%. For it to close at 150% between now and the end of the year, average inflation has to be 5 and a half. In other words, towards the end of the year it is clear that the inflation rate, given where we are starting, will be well below 5%. That is, we are achieving it. We are ending inflation. What's more, not only that, but also, the Fund always tends to be very aggressive in its projections. This time he fell short with the adjustment and he fell short, let's say, on the issue of inflation because it is falling faster. That is to say, whenever they seemed to be the bogeyman of the things they proposed, we are doing it much faster. On the other hand, there is another digression, let's say, that has to do with the real exchange rate.

At the beginning of the presentation I mentioned the issue of some who are very intellectually dishonest, saying that the exchange rate had to be set at 600 and the inflation rate made it higher. And now they complain about the exchange rate of 1,000 and start “not because there is exchange rate appreciation.” There is also, let's say, there is an answer to this, let's say, also with a lot of wisdom from Professor De Pablo. It is one thing to do economics, another thing to do arithmetic. And there are a lot of people doing arithmetic and not enough economics. Notice that not everyone makes this mistake. Let's say I'll spoil the result for you, what Arriazu says is right. Now I will explain. Arriazu says that Argentina, if it stabilizes given the fiscal structure it has, will coexist with a highly appreciated currency.

In that context, this is not minor, if we have to live with a highly appreciated currency because as international prices are given as long as the treasury does not want to get out of the way, the consequence is that it will be paid in terms of lower real wages, therefore if we want to raise and improve the quality of life of Argentines we must attack the fiscal deficit, we must attack public spending and not only at the national level, we must also attack it at the provincial and municipal level, We must sweep away the treasury in all dimensions. That is, the source of our impoverishment, the source of the fact that people do not have enough money, the source of the fact that there are so many poor people, so many destitute people and that there are a lot of Argentines shitting themselves from hunger. It's the fault of the damn politicians who don't want to lower public spending.

(Applause)

Returning and to close to the problems of the real exchange rate, which is a discussion that everyone likes to have so much, I say, the first problem is yes, suppose we watch the series, I mean, what you are going to see is that we say, The series seems like a roller coaster, but an endless roller coaster. I say the first thing I would say is, a series that has so much volatility, goes up and down, let's say, it looks like the electrocardiogram of a guy who is doing a marathon, I say, the first problem is Hey, can someone explain to me what value it is to take an average measurement? I mean, with all that standard deviation and all that volatility, can someone explain to me what is the point of taking an average measurement? It is already a serious problem. 

The second serious problem with that is fixing it at a moment in time, and who said that that was balance? I mean, you realize that, before we said about fatal arrogance, because we had to know the price vector, that is, we had to know the price vector of that moment, for that we had to know the preferences, technology and endowments of the entire company. economy from today to eternity. Well, now incorporate the world economy, that is, now it is no longer enough for you to know all that for Argentina, I say you have to know it for the whole world. That is to say, one cannot be so fatally arrogant and not only that, the absurdity, let's say, is crowned in a
superlative way, when we also say, that would give them the power to explain the conditions of supply and demand of all goods from all over the world in a moment of time, this means that you can tell me, I don't know, the
real exchange rate that was on the date, I don't know, what is the one that the reports use the most now? to say something, 2007, I say it randomly, I don't know, 1997, 1985, whenever you want, the question is: are the conditions of supply and demand for all economic goods identically the same as at that moment to say that the type Does the real change have to be the same?

I mean, we fall into the problem of fatal arrogance or we fall into the problem of furious imbecility, I don't know, do you like idiotic centrism that much? Because since they want it, let them apply it and do it that way or let's say what I suggest, take the entire neoclassical theory, a lot of pieces, we have to throw it back and we have to re-embrace the Austrian economics that are those who truly embrace the ideas of freedom. So, thank you very much and I'm going to tell you something, you know what? Despite politics, we are going to achieve it. Long live fucking freedom!
