Words by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei at the Conservative Action Political Conference (CPAC), in Washington, United States

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50371-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-la-conferencia-politica-de-accion-conservadora-cpac-en-washington-estados-unidos

Saturday February 24, 2024

Words by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei at the Conservative Action Political Conference (CPAC), in Washington, United States

Hello everyone. I am the lion. I also love them. Long live freedom, damn it. It seems that what they said was a neighborhood phenomenon, the neighborhood grew a little.

First of all, thank you very much for this invitation; Regarding today's conference, given the impact of the Conference in Davos, in which I pointed out that the West is in danger, given the advance of statist ideas, today I will focus on the technical foundations that supported these political assessments, at that conference. In this sense, I will focus on how neoclassical economics and its vision of market failures are functional to the advance of socialism and how this destroys economic growth by putting a brake on improvements in well-being and the fight against poverty.

Regarding the genesis of this problem, the problem is a methodological problem between models vs. reality. Since reality is always very complex to analyze, it is analyzed with models, but – in general terms – when the model does not map with reality, one corrects the model, discards the model and the problem with the neoclassical world is that faced with this problem , that the model does not map with reality, get angry with reality, calling it market failure.

The origin of this problem has to do with when one begins to study the normative qualities of competitive equilibrium, that is to say that, while the analysis focused on existence, uniqueness and stability, this did not constitute a serious problem, from the point of view of the political point of view. And strictly speaking, the problem appears when normative analysis enters hand in hand with Pareto analysis. Basically the idea of ​​Pareto optimality is that I cannot make someone better without making someone else worse. Specifically, if I am in a situation, where I can improve someone and I make an improvement for someone, without making someone else worse, that is called Paretian improvement. And obviously, when those opportunities are exhausted it means that we are at Pareto optimality.

And that is where the definitions of market failures appear, which have different names; one is non-convexities, that is, the existence of increasing returns, or to put it more popularly, concentrated market structures and monopolies. Other cases are externalities: public goods in asymmetric formation and the “Prisoners' Dilemma”. And in reality, all these elegant definitions are all elements that enable the intervention of the State and with that the advance of the statists and the socialists. But so that it is not so abstract, I am going to make an applied example: suppose that we are at the moment when we were lighting ourselves with candles and Ericsson had not yet arrived; obviously the moment Ericsson appears with the light bulb, all the candle manufacturers go bankrupt. Naturally, if we had paid attention to the interventionists, today, instead of having this beautiful conference, with all these lights, we would continue with candles; This is how socialists ruin our lives. Luckily, let's discard Pareto optimality and move forward with technological progress. (APPLAUSE).

So the first thing we have to understand is what the market is, have a good definition of what the market is. In this sense, the market is a process of social cooperation, where property rights are exchanged voluntarily. In fact – since exchanges are voluntary – it is not possible to talk about market failures because no one would be doing self-flagellating actions. Therefore, when we define the market well, all definitions of intervention collapse.

On the other hand, it is also very important to be very clear about the institutions on which the idea of ​​the market is built. Two very important institutions are private property and markets free of state intervention, because – basically – if I am going to be exchanging property rights it means that private property is important. And if the exchanges are not voluntary, there is no place for the intrusive and violent presence of the State. (APPLAUSE)

In this sense, when an exchange is made and someone gives a good in exchange for money, this sets a historical record, called price. And this historical record, called price, is a mechanism for transmitting information, which also becomes a coordination mechanism because it makes some people suppliers and others demanders.

And since the quantity demanded does not necessarily coincide with the quantity supplied, when demand is greater than supply, prices rise and otherwise fall. That is, there is an adjustment process. In short, private property and free markets determine the functioning of the price system and that is what allows economic calculation. And this shows why socialism in none of its aspects can work, in the most extreme case because there is no private property, therefore the exchanges that the market requires cannot be made. And secondly, the lighter versions that allow the existence of the private sector, the interference of the State puts noise in the price system, and the more State there is, the more violence there is, the more distortion there is and the worse the system works.

Another important institution for markets is what is called free competition, but not in the neoclassical sense of perfect competition, but in terms of entry and exit. And on the other hand there are two institutions that are very important, which are the division of labor and social cooperation. The division of labor was best explained by Adam Smith: a single person could only produce 20 pins, but if the task was divided into fifteen, each person could produce 5 thousand pins, we are talking about 75 thousand pins, but what is the problem? If there is no demand for 75 thousand pins, there will not be as much division of labor. And this combined with the idea of ​​social combination, ends up being absolutely destructive to socialist ideas. One is: I might be hating him, but I need him to buy my product, therefore, I inexorably have to give it well. That is why, as Bastiat said, “Where commerce enters, bullets do not enter.” And promoting free trade is promoting peace.

And at the same time, the market as a process of social cooperation is a tremendous bomb against socialism, because if exchanges are free, that means that the two parties involved in the exchange both win. Therefore, there is no place for the theory of exploitation, there is no place for surplus value, there is no place for Marxism and socialism.

At the same time, it is important to point out, in the logic of the market, a successful businessman is a social benefactor, because in free enterprise capitalism it is only possible to be successful by serving others with goods of better quality or at a better price. And if that businessman is not doing it well, another may appear who can provide the same good at a better price, or the same price, better quality, and that will bankrupt the inefficient and will enhance well-being; And therefore, entrepreneurs are social benefactors because they provide us with better quality goods, at a better price, while they create jobs and progress throughout society. Therefore, let us embrace entrepreneurs who are the foundation of prosperity.

Therefore, given this introduction, it is worth facing, now, where the neoclassical dilemma lies. This within the theory of economic growth and its empirical evidence is called: “The hockey stick.” If you look at history, from the Christian era onwards, the GDP per capita between the period between the year 0 and 1800 was practically constant. However, from the year 1800 until now, it multiplied by more than 15 times, and in that same period, the population in the year 1800 was 800 million human beings, and today it has multiplied by 10. That is to say, Per capita productivity increased and, in addition, GDP increased nearly 150 times, to the point that we are in the best moment in the history of humanity. All this, despite the existence of the State. And in this same period of such significant economic growth, extreme poverty went from 95% of the population to 5%. However, this presence of increasing returns means that there are concentrated structures, that is, there are monopolies. So, the question is: if so much well-being was generated, why does neoclassical theory say that monopolies are bad, if it brought us so much well-being and so much fall into poverty? And actually, as Murray Newton Rothbard, the inventor of anarcho-capitalism, would say, the problem is that neoclassical analysis is wrong. Suppose I have 10 companies competing to make cell phones, and one of them discovers a technique to make a better quality phone at a better price, naturally there are 9 companies that are going to go bankrupt. However, would any of you complain about having better phones at a better price? Therefore, out with neoclassical theory.

So let's see where those errors of neoclassical theory are. In the simplest version it is because they say that the monopoly price is higher than that of the competition and that the quantity produced is less than in competition. However, this analysis is wrong because it has several problems; firstly because it is only a partial equilibrium analysis, it only considers the equilibrium in a single market, and does not consider the rest of the economy. That is to say, I have a monopoly on Javier Milei and you have a monopoly on yourselves, on each one of you, and there is nothing wrong with that, fortunately we are all different, thank God. What's more, we celebrate our differences because we don't like the gray uniformity of socialism. But not only is it bad because it is a partial equilibrium analysis that does not consider the rest of the markets, but it is also so crude that it does not consider future effects, that is, the impact on the future of these market structures. In fact, this reminds me of a beautiful book by an American economist and thinker, Henry Hazlit, called “Economics in One Lesson,” which said: “The difference between a good economist and a bad economist is that the "A bad economist only looks at the market in one period, while a good economist looks at all markets and not only the present, but also the future." Therefore, this would be showing that the traditional analysis of monopoly and by which they are regulated, is part of a bad economic analysis. And if, in addition, we take the role that profits play as an element to generate economic growth, furthermore, messing with profits implies having a negative impact on growth. So the question is: What is the true answer, or the true basis of this analysis? And actually the answer is not in economic analysis, it is in the mathematical structure that uses general equilibrium. Basically, it has to do with the analysis of Pareto optimality and the problem of non-convexities in the production set. Pareto optimality, for the existing equilibrium to be Pareto optimal, both consumers and producers should be maximizing. And the problem is that when we have increasing returns we have convex production functions and the problem with those functions is that you can't find a maximum. Naturally, that is also a mathematical error because if I have increasing returns I can find a maximum if I use all the resources in the economy and then another problem would appear that would leave me with only one company; But what seems empirically correct also has another conceptual error because it basically implies ignoring the nature of the firm and among other things, it leaves aside the fact that firms are managed by human beings and naturally when you want to work the most to produce more ,The opportunity cost of free time grows phenomenally. What good would a job that offers you 12 million dollars a year be if you had to work 7 days a week, 24 hours a day? They are going to collide with their own humanity. However, neoclassical analysis works with firms as if they were machines and not as companies that depend on human beings.


Finally, other criticisms made of monopolies are that they generate fewer quantities produced in the economy and that is also false because the money that monopolists earn can obviously be used for consumption and generate production and employment in other places in the world. the economy.

Now let's make a couple of cases that irritate Keynesians the most. What happens if we save those big profits? This savings is transformed into investment in other companies and that generates growth in product and employment in other sectors. Do not miss anything. Or suppose that this monopolist is so ambitious that he wants to invest everything in his own company. Such that all his savings are transformed into investments. But that investment means more capital, more productivity, higher wages and at the same time more production of the good, therefore the price drops, therefore higher wages and lower prices, therefore, all gains in well-being.

What's more, then we can no longer find any more attacks on the monopolist, since if he consumes he generates well-being, since if he saves in the financial system he generates well-being and if he saves and invests in himself he also generates well-being. Now let's think about what happens if the “damned businessman” decides to bury that money. So no one can access that money.

What is going to happen? The amount of money in the economy will be reduced and prices will drop, benefiting the entire population. And what's more, this bad businessman will benefit the most from those who have the least because they are the ones who benefit from deflation. Therefore, all we have just seen is that all the analyzes that justify intervention only create more State and greater harm to the people.

Therefore, to close this presentation, I am going to show how socialist intervention destroys the economy. And basically this attack that the socialists make is basically from two points of view. On the one hand there is the regulation of monopolies, which by regulating monopolies breaks the effect of increasing returns and causes economies to stagnate. If it were regulated under the neoclassical ideal, the quasi-income would be zero. And therefore we would be in a world of perfect competition where there are no incentives to grow.


Ultimately what it does is abort the process of creative destruction à la Shumpeter. Because these processes of creative destruction are based on the idea of ​​solving some problems in society that allows them more money and that is what generates technological progress and growth. Therefore, if I regulate profits, if I regulate profit, the problem I am going to have is stagnation. Aside from the fact that regulating prices and quantities implies destroying property rights.

In fact, I am going to tell you a case from a country that I know, called Argentina. A country that entered the 20th century being one of the richest countries in the world and yet today is 140th in the world ranking, with more than 50% poor and more than 10% indigent. And when you look at the amount of regulations, you will understand why.

Within our government teams, we have discovered, for the moment, 380 thousand regulations that hinder the functioning of the economic system. And in fact, our two great requests for measures, for structural reforms, the DNU and the Bases Law, proposals that propose giving more freedom to Argentines, moving towards more competitive market structures and above all, eliminating corruption politics, we find great resistance from the beneficiaries of this decadent system, which impoverishes good Argentines in favor of the corrupt caste. Where the corrupt caste is made up of thieving politicians, who put their privileges above the well-being of Argentines, by prebendary businessmen who do business with corrupt politicians, by corrupt media that are very angry with us because we eliminated the official guideline , also by the unionists who go about their business against the people, and also by those professionals who are functional to the religion of the State who live by defending these corrupt people. Therefore, they will become aware of the great fight we are fighting. But we are not going to give up on making Argentina great again.


The other great threat that socialists and statism attack is basically the discussion between efficiency and distribution, where capitalism is pointed out as a hyper-individualistic system and compared to socialist altruism with other people's money. Always with other people's money. And this aberration is carried out in the name of social justice, where Hayet spoke of the weasel words. Where every time they gave him an adjective, he meant the complete opposite. In fact, as the great Jesús Huerta de Soto says, social justice is violent and unjust, it is neither fair nor social or anything, it is an aberration.


Firstly, it is unfair because it implies unequal treatment before the law and the redistribution that social justice implies is stealing from one to give to another. Which makes social justice, in addition to being violent, unjust. In the same sense, this is aggravated by the idea of ​​​​unlimited democracy. That is, democracy was originally designed to respect the right of the smallest of minorities, the individual. But when socialist ideas enter and the idea of ​​unlimited democracy enters, populism enters. But so that it doesn't remain so abstract, I'm going to give you an example. Suppose four wolves and a chicken get together. Now let's vote on what to eat tonight. They just ate the chicken.
Deep down, that is also what happens in the economy, the goose that lays the golden eggs is the segment that generates wealth, but due to the form of income distribution, 80% of the population has an income less than the income average. And that's when the populist politician appears who says that we have to take from the rich to give to the poor. Not only Venezuela, Argentina and all Latin American populism. And when that happens, it destroys profits and it destroys economic growth. If you want to put it in practical terms, Argentina is a country that produces food for more than 400 million human beings and the tax pressure on the food producing sector is 70%. That is to say, the State keeps the food for 280 million human beings. Despite this, there are 5 million Argentines who cannot afford to eat thanks to the damned State.


Another part that socialists also discuss and that has to do with the distribution of income, they say that the system is unfair, there is a beautiful book by Israel Kirzner, called creativity, capitalism and distributive justice. And that book is based on the hypothesis that Kirzner says, the capitalist system is more productive but that if it were truly unjust, there would be no reason to defend it. In that sense, he works on two ideas, he works with Locke's principle of appropriation, whoever discovers it, keeps it. If you discover something, you own it. And the other idea is Hayet's, which is that of the market as a discovery process, which implies that there is no cake to distribute, but rather that cake is created when it is produced. Therefore, if that cake is discovered while you are advancing in the production process, therefore, the logical thing is that that cake is appropriated by the one who discovered it. Therefore, now the system is not only more productive, but it is also the only system that is fair.

And the truth is that if we say all this to the socialists, we have them more than in checkmate, I would tell them that... that's why I'm going to give them one more, I'm going to give them an encore. Naturally, when one regulates monopolies, regulates companies, which were competitive processes, and at the same time introduces the concept of social justice, obviously that leads to stagnation. And this stagnation given the growth of the population leads to the gradual impoverishment of that country. And how do they correct this? They correct it with the murderous agenda of abortion. A murderous agenda that we can find its origins with the Egyptians trying to exterminate the Jews or with the case of Malthus with his treatise on population and the iron law and wages that he promoted in birth control; or closer - at the end of the 60s - the Club of Rome, where the Club of Rome said that as the world moved with fossil energy and since these energies are not renewable, they predicted that in the year 2000 those resources would be exhausted. resources. And yet, what that situation was going to generate was that there would be no food for everyone and that we would die and that there would only be one billion people left on planet Earth. And based on that, today, with the files of Nixon and Kissinger having been declassified, we know that they proposed that murderous agenda of abortion; where, for example, (INAUDIBLE) has more stores than McDonald's around the world. But fortunately they were wrong again because today there are 8 billion human beings living in the world. However, they do not stop this murderous agenda, in fact, post-Marxism, faced with its economic defeat, transferred its battles of class struggle to other aspects of life, for example, environmentalism; where they raise the struggle of man with nature, where they blame the human being for global warming, when this has already happened four times in the history of planet Earth and the human being did not live, and where to correct this problem the neo-Marxists do not Nothing else happens than exterminating humans, if we truly had resource problems we should be waiting to colonize other planets, not condemn ourselves to death. In fact, all those analyzes against population growth are false, so I want to leave you with the case of a very optimistic economist named Julian Simon, who pointed out that population growth brought more technological progress, so, for example , pointed out that there was technological growth driven by demand, where basically because there were more people and there were problems of shortages and so on, this affected the price system and generated new reforms and new technological progress to solve these problems, and on the other hand, it pointed out the progress technological driven by the supply side, where - for example - the chances of having Mozart are much greater if 1 million people live than if 10 live.

In short, the message is the following: do not allow socialism to advance, do not endorse regulation, do not endorse the idea of ​​market failures, do not allow the advancement of the murderous agenda and do not allow yourself to be carried away by the siren song of social justice; I come from a country that bought all those stupid ideas and being one of the richest countries in the world, it is in 140th place. Therefore, do not give up your freedom, fight for your freedom, because if you do not fight for freedom the They will lead to misery. But I also want to leave you a message of optimism, Argentina seemed like a country of sheep condemned to the poverty that the socialists mark on us and I remember when I started my political career to be a National Deputy I said: I didn't come to guide lambs, I came to awaken lions. And so it was that every day we woke up more lions and the message of freedom not only led us to the Presidency of Argentina, but we are also waking up the whole world. Therefore, do not give in to the fight for freedom, long live fucking freedom! Long live fucking freedom! Thank you so much.
