Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, after the presidential swearing-in and inauguration ceremony, from the steps of the Honorable Congress of the Nation.

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50258-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-luego-del-acto-de-jura-y-asuncion-presidencial-desde-las-escalinatas-del-honorable-congreso-de-la-nacion

Sunday December 10, 2023

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, after the presidential swearing-in and inauguration ceremony, from the steps of the Honorable Congress of the Nation.

Hello everyone. Honorable ministers of the Court, honorable governors, honorable national deputies and senators, presidents and foreign dignitaries, Argentines, today a new era begins in Argentina, today we end a long and sad history of decadence and decline, and we begin the path of the reconstruction of our country.

Argentines have forcefully expressed a will for change that has no return, there is no turning back, today we bury decades of failure, internal fights and meaningless disputes; fights that have only destroyed our beloved country and left us in ruin. Today begins a new era in Argentina, an era of peace and prosperity, an era of growth and development, an era of freedom and progress.

200 years ago a group of Argentine citizens, gathered in San Miguel de Tucumán, told the world that the united provinces of the Río de la Plata were no longer a Spanish colony, and that from that historic moment we would be a free and sovereign nation. . For decades, we faced internal disputes about what institutional form our country needed.

In 1853, after 40 years of having declared Independence, under the auspices of a small group of young idealists, who today we know as the generation of '37, we decided as a people to embrace the ideas of Freedom. Thus, a Liberal Constitution was sanctioned, with the objective of ensuring the benefits of Freedom, for us, for our posterity and for all men in the world who want to inhabit Argentine soil. What came after the sanction of that Constitution, with strong liberal roots, was the most impressive economic expansion in our history. From being a country of barbarians engaged in an all-out war, we became the leading world power. By the beginning of the 20th century we were the beacon of light of the West.

Our coasts welcomed with open arms millions of immigrants who escaped from a devastated Europe in search of a horizon of progress. Unfortunately our leadership decided to abandon the model that had made us rich, and embraced the impoverishing ideas of collectivism.

For more than 100 years, politicians have insisted on defending a model that only generates poverty, stagnation and misery. A model that considers that citizens are there to serve politics and not that politics exists to serve citizens; a model that considers that the task of a politician is to direct the lives of individuals in all possible areas and spheres; a model that considers the State as a spoil of war that must be distributed among friends. Gentlemen, that model has failed, it has failed all over the world, but it has especially failed in our country.

Just as the fall of the Berlin Wall marked the end of a tragic time for the world, these elections have marked the turning point of our history.

These days much has been said about the inheritance we are going to receive. Let me be very clear on this: no government has received a worse inheritance than what we are receiving. Kirchnerism, which in its beginnings boasted of having twin surpluses, that is, fiscal and external surpluses, today leaves us with twin deficits of 17 percent of GDP.

In turn, of those 17 points of GDP, 15 correspond to the consolidated deficit between the Treasury and the Central Bank. Therefore, there is no viable solution that avoids attacking the fiscal deficit. At the same time, of those 15 points of fiscal deficit, 5 correspond to the National Treasury and 10 to the Central Bank, so the solution implies, on the one hand, a fiscal adjustment in the national public sector of 5 points of GDP, which Unlike the past, it will fall almost entirely on the State and not on the private sector.

On the other hand, it is necessary to clean up the remunerated liabilities of the Central Bank, which are responsible for its 10-point deficit. In this way, the issuance of money would be put to an end, and with it, the only cause of inflation that is empirically certain and valid in theoretical terms. However, given that monetary policy acts with a lag, which ranges between 18 and 24 months, even if we stop issuing money today, we will continue to pay the costs of the outgoing government's monetary rampage. Having issued for 20 points of GDP as was done in the outgoing government, is not free, we are going to pay for it in inflation.

At the same time, the exchange rate, another legacy of this government, not only constitutes a social and productive nightmare, because it implies high interest rates, low level of activity, low level of formal employment and miserable real wages, which drive the increase in poor and indigent, but, in addition, the surplus of money in the economy today is double what it was before the “Rodrigazo.”

To have an idea of ​​what this implies, let us remember that the “Rodrigazo” multiplied the inflation rate by six times. So a similar event would mean multiplying the inflation rate by 12 times, and given that it has been traveling at a rate of 300 percent, we could go to an annual rate of 3,600.

At the same time (Don't worry, it doesn't end here, the inheritance continues) given the situation of the Central Bank's remunerated liabilities, which is worse than what it was before Alfonsín's hyperinflation, in a very short time, it could quadruple the amount of money and thereby bring inflation to levels of 15 thousand percent annually.

This is the legacy they leave us, a planted inflation of 15 thousand percent annually, which we are going to fight tooth and nail to eradicate.

What's more, this number, which seems crazy, I want you to know implies an inflation of 52 percent monthly. While today it is already traveling at a rate, according to private estimates that range between 20 and 40 percent per month, for the months between December and February.

That is, the outgoing government has left us with hyperinflation, and it is our highest priority to make all possible efforts to avoid such a catastrophe, which would lead to poverty above 90 percent, and indigence above 50.

Consequently, there is no alternative solution to the adjustment. On the other hand, the inheritance does not end there; since the imbalances in rates are only comparable to the disaster left by Kirchnerism in 2015. At the exchange level, the gap ranges between 150 and 200 percent, levels also similar to those we had in the “Rodrigazo.” In turn, the debt with importers exceeds 30 billion dollars; and the profits retained from foreign companies reach 10 billion dollars. The debt of the Central Bank and YPF totals 25 billion dollars, and the outstanding treasury debt totals an additional 35 billion dollars. This is the bomb - in terms of debt - amounts to 100 billion dollars that will have to be added to the nearly 420 billion dollars of already existing debt.

Naturally, to these problems we must also add the debt maturities this year, where the debt maturities in pesos are equivalent to 90 billion dollars and 25 billion dollars in foreign currency with multilateral credit organizations. However, with financial markets closed and the agreement with the IMF fallen due to the brutal defaults of the outgoing Government, the debt roll over is extremely challenging even for the mythical cyclops.

As if all this were not enough, this is happening in an economy that has not grown since 2011; and in line with the above, formal employment in the private sector remains stagnant at 6 million jobs, reaching the point of madness, which is surpassed by 33 percent by informal employment; Therefore, it should not surprise anyone that real wages have been destroyed; located around 300 dollars per month, which are not only six times lower than those of convertibility, but if the trend of those years had continued - or as they called them: "damned liberalism" - today it would oscillate between 3 thousand and 3,500 dollars per month. They have ruined our lives, they have made our salaries drop tenfold. Therefore, we should not be surprised that populism is leaving us 45 percent poor and 10 percent destitute.

After this situation, which clearly seems irretrievable, it must be clear that there is no possible alternative to adjustment. There is also no room for discussion between shock and gradualism; firstly, because from an empirical point of view all gradualist programs ended badly; while all the shock programs -except the one in 1959- were successful. Secondly, because from a theoretical point of view, if a country lacks reputation - as is unfortunately the case with Argentina - businessmen will not invest until they see the fiscal adjustment making it recessive. Thirdly, and no less important, to achieve gradualism there needs to be financing; and unfortunately I have to tell you again, there is no money. (APPLAUSE). Therefore, the conclusion is that there is no alternative to adjustment and there is no alternative to shock. Naturally, this will have a negative impact on the level of activity, employment, real wages, and the number of poor and indigent people. There will be stagflation, it is true, but it is not something very different from what has happened in the last twelve years; Let us remember that in the last twelve years the GDP per capita has fallen 15 percent, in a context where we have accumulated 5 thousand percent of inflation; Therefore, we have been living in stagflation for more than a decade, therefore, this is the last step to begin the reconstruction of Argentina.

At the same time, after the rearrangement of the macro that we are going to promote, which will be less painful the greater the fall in the country's risk and the better our containment from the Ministry of Human Capital, the situation will begin to improve; that is: there will be light at the end of the road. (APPLAUSE). In the alternative case, the sentimental progressive proposal whose only source of financing is the issuance of money will lead to hyperinflation that will lead the country to the worst crisis in its history, added to the fact that it will put us in a decadent spiral that will equate us with the darkness of the Venezuela of Chávez and Maduro; Therefore, after such a situation there should be no doubt that the only possible opposition is to adjustment. An orderly adjustment that falls with all its force on the State and not on the private sector. (APPLAUSE).

We know it will be hard, that is why I also want to bring you an outstanding phrase from one of the best presidents in Argentine history, who was Julio Argentino Roca; Nothing great, stable and lasting is achieved in the world when it comes to the freedom of men and the aggrandizement of peoples if it is not at the cost of supreme efforts and painful sacrifices; But our challenges do not end only at the economic level. The level of deterioration in our country is such that it covers all spheres of community life.

In terms of security, Argentina has become a bloodbath; Criminals walk free, while good Argentines are locked up behind bars. Drug trafficking slowly took over our streets, to the point that one of the most important cities in our country has been kidnapped by drug traffickers and the level of deterioration of our country is such that it covers all spheres of community life. .

In terms of security, Argentina has become a bloodbath; Criminals walk free, while good Argentines are locked up behind bars. Drug trafficking slowly took over our streets, to the point that one of the most important cities in our country has been kidnapped by drug traffickers and our security forces have been humiliated and mistreated for decades; They have been abandoned by a political class, which has turned its back on those who care for us.

The anomie is such that only 3 percent of crimes are convicted; The “go on, go on” of criminals is over. (APPLAUSE).

In social terms we are receiving a country, where half is poor, with the social fabric completely broken. Thus, more than 20 million Argentines cannot live a dignified life because they are prisoners of a system that only generates more poverty. As the great Jesús Huerta de Soto says: “plans against poverty generate more poverty.” The only way out of poverty is with more freedom. (APPLAUSE).

At the same time, 6 million children – tonight – will go to bed hungry; Some walk barefoot on the street and others fell into drugs.

The same thing happens in educational matters; To give you an idea of ​​the deterioration we are experiencing, only 16 percent of our children attend school – in a timely manner. Only 16 percent, I repeat, only 16 out of every 100. That is to say, 84 percent of our children do not finish school, in a timely manner. At the same time, 60 percent of children - who do finish school - cannot solve a basic mathematics problem or understand a text.

In fact, in the latest Pisa evaluation, Argentina is in 66th place, out of 81 and seventh, in Latin America, and Argentina was the first country to end illiteracy in the world. If Sarmiento stood up and saw what they did with education.

In terms of health, the system is completely collapsed, since the hospitals are destroyed; Doctors charge a pittance and Argentines do not have access to basic healthcare. So much so that - during the pandemic - if we Argentines had done things like the average of the countries, we would not have had 30 thousand deaths, but thanks to the “State takes care of you” and its inefficiency, 130,000 Argentines lost their lives.

That is the present State, about which politicians talk so much, an argument they use to justify the enormous increase in public spending, which only benefits them. In all spheres – wherever you look – the situation in Argentina is an emergency.

If we look at the infrastructure of our country, the situation is the same, since only 16 percent of our roads are paved and only 11 percent are in good condition. Therefore, it is no coincidence that 15,000 Argentines die, per year, in traffic accidents.

What I want to illustrate with all this is that the situation in Argentina is critical and emergency. We have no alternatives nor do we have time; We have no room for sterile discussions, because our country demands action and immediate action.

The political class leaves a country on the brink of the deepest crisis in our history; each of them will have to take responsibility for themselves. It is not my job to point them out.

We do not seek or desire the tough decisions that will have to be made in the coming weeks, but – unfortunately – they have left us no choice. However, our commitment to Argentines is unalterable. We are going to make all the necessary decisions to fix the problem, which caused 100 years of waste by the political class, even if – at first – it is hard. (APPLAUSE).

We know that – in the short term – the situation will worsen, but then we will see the fruits of our efforts, having created the foundations for solid and sustainable growth over time. We also know that all is not lost; The challenges we face are enormous, but so is our ability to overcome them. It will not be easy, since 100 years of failure will not be undone in one day, but one day it begins. And today is that day. (APPLAUSE).

Today we begin to retrace the path of decadence and begin to travel the path of prosperity. We have everything to be the country we always dreamed of: we have the resources, we have the people, we have the creativity and much more importantly we have the resilience to move forward.

Today we once again embrace the ideas of freedom, those ideas that are summarized in the definition of liberalism of our greatest hero of the ideas of freedom, Professor Alberto Benegas Lich, Jr., who says: “liberalism is the unrestricted respect for the project of life for others, based on the principle of non-aggression, in defense of the right to life, liberty and property, whose fundamental institutions are: private property, markets free of state intervention, free competition, division of labor and social cooperation.
In that phrase - 57 words - the essence of the new social contract, which the Argentines chose, is summarized. (APPLAUSE)

This new social contract offers us a different country, a country in which the State does not direct our lives, but rather safeguards our rights; a country where they make them… pay for them. (APPLAUSE). Furthermore, a country, in which it blocks the street – violating the rights of its fellow citizens – does not receive assistance from society. Put in other terms: he who cuts, does not charge; a country that, within the law, allows everything, but outside the law it allows nothing; a country that contains those who need it, but does not allow itself to be extorted by those who use those who have less to enrich themselves. (APPLAUSE).

As for the Argentine political class - I want to tell you - that we do not come to persecute anyone, we do not come to settle old vendettas, nor to discuss spaces of power. Our project is not a power project, our project is a country project; We do not ask for blind accompaniment, but we are not going to tolerate hypocrisy, dishonesty, or the ambition for power to interfere with the change that we Argentines choose.

To all those political, union and business leaders who want to join the new Argentina, we welcome you with open arms. So it doesn't matter where they come from, it doesn't matter what they've done before, the only thing that matters is where they want to go.

For those who want to use violence or extortion to hinder change, we tell you that you are going to encounter a president with unwavering convictions, who will use all the resources of the State to advance the changes that our country needs. We are not going to give up, we are not going to retreat, we are not going to give up. We are going to move forward with the changes that the country needs because we are sure that embracing the ideas of freedom is the only way in which we can get out of the hole in which they have put us. (APPLAUSE).

Therefore, and to conclude, let it be clear: today a new era begins in Argentina. The challenge that lies ahead of us is titanic, but the true strength of a people is measured in how it faces challenges when they arise. And every time we believe that our capacity to overcome those challenges has been achieved, we look to the sky, and we remember that that capacity could very well be limitless. The challenge is enormous, but we will face it with conviction, we will work tirelessly and we will reach our destination.

It is no coincidence that this presidential inauguration occurs during the Hanukkah holidays, the festival of light, since it celebrates the true essence of freedom. The War of the Maccabees is the symbol of the triumph of the weak over the powerful; of the few over the many, of light over darkness and, above all things, of truth over lies. Because you know that I prefer to tell you an uncomfortable truth rather than a comfortable lie. (APPLAUSE). I am convinced that we are going to move forward. }

I remember, when two years ago, together with Dr. Villarruel, today vice president of the Nation, we entered this house as Deputies; I remember that, in an interview, they had told me: “but if there are two of you, in 257, you will not be able to do anything” and I also remember that that day, the answer was, a quote from the Book of Maccabees, 319, which He says that “victory, in battle, does not depend on the number of soldiers, but on the Forces that come from Heaven.”

Therefore, God bless the Argentines and may the Forces of Heaven accompany us in this challenge. Thank you very much, it will be difficult, but we will do it.

Long live freedom, damn it!
