Words by President Javier Milei at the placement of the Bust of President Carlos Menem in Casa Rosada

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50488-palabras-del-presidente-javier-milei-en-la-colocacion-del-busto-del-presidente-carlos-menem-en-casa-rosada

Tuesday May 14, 2024

Words by President Javier Milei at the placement of the Bust of President Carlos Menem in Casa Rosada

Good afternoon, thank you very much to everyone here. My words are going to have two blocks, in one block I am going to make a brief review of the political history of Doctor Menem and then I am going to take the courage to tell some anecdotes that seem pertinent to me and if you don't think so I apologize ex ante.

On a day like today 35 years ago, May 14, 1989, this man we are demanding today was elected President of the Nation. That is why we chose this date to pay tribute to him and place the bust of Carlos Saúl Menem in its proper place.

Who was Menem? We could talk for hours about his long and extensive personal and political life, but we are going to make a summary and perhaps in it we can see some characteristics of the person who brings us here today. Originally from La Rioja, lawyer, the first lawyer of the Syrian-Lebanese community in all of La Rioja. He graduated in Córdoba in 1954 and here I comment on some interesting data that show him as a person and that in turn describe what his political career was like.

As soon as he receives it, they approach him - at that time - from Peronism and tell him: “join Justicialism and we will appoint you prosecutor”; Menem answered no, that he wanted to dedicate himself to the profession and that he was not going to join for a position. His ideological belonging was undeniable, but his principles were immovable. For a charge he was not going to do or not do. He had other objectives and they were very clear: his first public position was governor, he had no previous stop in the State, he was not undersecretary, nor advisor, nor director, nor vice minister, nor deputy, nor anything else. He straight to the governorship. This describes, in part, his audacity. He went to elections within the party, he won them and in 1973 he was elected governor. From the private sector to the government. Perhaps it is that detail that most distinguishes Menem from 99% of the politicians of that time. He was a capitalist like his father, he came from the private sector.

He knew how to make a living by serving others, better quality or better price. The story goes that he had 11 employees in his law firm, yes 11 employees in La Rioja in a law firm in the 60s. A true odyssey, almost a feat, who would have imagined it, perhaps that explains a lot of what which was in his career political life, which he entered after having worked 19 years in the profession. But what else? He was deprived of his freedom from 1976 to 1981, he was imprisoned on a boat in Magdalena, Mar del Plata, Tandil and Las Lomitas. Several times on the verge of being disappeared but he had the custody of his guardian angel, his brother Eduardo.

I get excited because I know what's coming from this part of the speech, that's why. A story that paints him in full is the death of his mother. In 1976, when they arrested him, they took him to Buenos Aires as a prisoner; His mother, Mohibe, in La Rioja, very sad for her son, suffered greatly from the absence of her son, and even more so because he was deprived of his freedom. Everyone talked about how affectionate Carlos was with his family, especially with his parents. One day they take him to testify in La Rioja, for the cases that the military had initiated against him. His mother is going to visit him, where he was, testifying and is excited that they were going to leave him in La Rioja; detained, but at least in La Rioja. The next day after his statement, they put him on a military plane and take him to Buenos Aires again.

His mother was watching from the balcony of her house, she observed the plane and said very sadly: 'They are taking Carlos there.' That same night, in the midst of this sadness, he suffers a decompensation and dies the next day in a massive heart attack. Eduardo asks the military to allow Menem, imprisoned in Buenos Aires, to attend the wake of his mother in La Rioja. The military denies him this; the person who denies this is General Harguindeguy. Then Menem was released, he was elected governor again in 1983 and re-elected in 1987, and in 1989 he was elected president for the first time. A few months after assuming office as president, using constitutional tools, he made the decision to pacify Argentina through numerous pardons granted to military personnel as well as guerrillas. As well as guerrillas.

History says that the first pardon was signed to the same General Harguindeguy who had prohibited him from attending his mother's wake. This cost Menem various family fights, with Mr. Eduardo, for example. When he was pardoning none other than the person who had prevented him from firing his mother. When they asked him why he did it, Menem responded to those closest to him that the most important thing was to pacify Argentina, that this was above personal issues. That was Menem.

That is why today we are doing an act of justice, that is why we bring his image to the house from which he governed Argentina for more than 10 years. In this way we are recognizing his leadership, his political career and his governments. He was elected governor three times, elected president twice, and senator three times elected, in all cases always by popular vote. We cannot forget that Menem received a hyperinflationary catastrophe and handed over to his successor in 1999 an orderly, stable country with a GDP per capita 60% higher than that of '89. He managed to place Argentina among the emerging protagonists of the new globalization. He modernized the institutions in 1994 through the most consensual Constitutional Reform in history. He led with boldness, intuition and pragmatism. He inspired those of us who believe in freedom to follow his example. For all this, today we are paying tribute to the best president of the last 40 years, at least. Finally, I want to say some more personal things that I have witnesses that are true. The first thing I want to tell you is when I met Dr. Menem. I remember that I was on a program, on América 24, by Mauro Viale and Dr. Eduardo Menem was there and, like piranhas, several liberals came out to attack Eduardo and, above all, to attack the Carlos government. I say this because this is the most trustworthy part, I would almost say. And in that context, obviously, I went out to make my passionate defense of what was the government of Carlos Saúl Menem, and when I was going off the air and was leaving, suddenly a man called me, who was there, Mr. Alberto Kohan; and he calls me he tells me Milei? yes, and he tells me it was him, I couldn't believe; I tell him: is it you? Yes, yes, I'm going to put you through to someone who wants to talk to you.

Well, on the other side was Carlos. At that moment Carlos thanked me for the defense that he had made of his government and as a consequence he invited me to dinner at his house. But since the invisible hand had to put its hand in and had to produce spontaneous order, it happened that on Monday or Tuesday of that week, Martín called me about an absolutely personal matter of Martín's, something he confessed to me later, and when Martín He called me, I thought he was calling me to organize dinner with Carlos, and Martín, very wise, let me run, I say all this, I say, we know it now because Martín himself told me about it, and then he went to verify if that story was true, And indeed it was true and then we organized a visit in Belgrano to Carlos's house. And what happened to me was very impressive, because I remember when Dr. José Luis Espert was inaugurated as president, we had had a party in New York City, and then our greatest hero of freedom, Dr. Alberto Benegas Lynch Jr., approached. and he told me “You're not going to get involved in this, are you?” I said “No teacher, my thing is the cultural battle, I don't want to know anything about politics.”

“But look, we need it on this side,” stay calm, professor, politics is not my thing. My vision was not very accurate. It doesn't matter, the important thing is that he scores the goals now. And we are beating inflation, rest assured. We scheduled a visit to Carlos's house and, when I arrived, Carlos greeted me with great affection, he gave me a kiss, a hug and, at that moment, he told me something that left my blood cold. He told me: “you are going to be president of Argentina, but you are going to do it better, because you not only have the intuition and courage, but you have the knowledge.” I told him: “Carlos, I hate politics.” He tells me: “I never make mistakes.” “But Carlos, I don't like politics.” “Listen to me, I'm never wrong.”

Then the talk began and we had a whole talk about economics, let's say, very good indeed. He interrupted the talk and told me the same thing again that he was going to be president and I was resisting. And well, then came the second part of the talk, where Carlos was Carlos, you will understand what we were talking about and that's how the talk ended. And when the talk was over and we were leaving, Carlos repeated to me what he told me when he had received me, I no longer had the strength to say no, that is, in the face of a man with so much sense of smell, there was no longer, let's say, more arguments and boy did he get it right, because I am standing here, being President of the Nation and with the honor of being able to inaugurate this bust of Doctor Carlos Saúl Menem.

It is no small matter where this bust is located. If you notice, here is the bust of Bartolomé Miter. Why Miter? The importance of Miter, because beyond the enormous work of Urquiza to put into practice the Alberdi Constitution of '53, starting in '54, with the triumph, suppose that one part says that it was a triumph, another part says that it was not , but whatever it may be, I mean an agreement, let's say, to unify Buenos Aires to the United Provinces of the South, to constitute Argentina and, as of that year, when the Alberdi Constitution begins to be applied; From being a country, literally, of barbarians, in 35 years we became the first world power. Well, it does have a relationship to put the one who strongly initiated that process and someone who tried to get Argentina out of the barbarism that it lived through for much of the 20th century and put it back on its feet, such as Carlos Menem. Obviously, there is a reassignment of busts, and obviously, that makes a whole sense. There is the bust of Sarmiento, someone with strong courage, a man who, although he was cultured, was not the champion of forms, but he had the courage he had to have to do the things he did, and be one of the great presidents of Argentine history, being a precursor in the idea of ​​human capital as a growth factor and, by the way, they also called him crazy. Then, let's say, there is the bust of Carlos Pellegrini. Carlos Pellegrini took office in the middle of a monumental crisis and when Pellegrini took office he did what he had to do, regardless of the political consequences of it, he did what he had to do. When Pellegrini finishes those two years, where they put cash in the Argentine economy and lays the foundations for the growth process to restart, he is going to leave through Congress and an advisor tells him “Look, Don Carlos, don't leave through the main door, leave by the side". He lived a few blocks from Congress, he says, “Because tempers are running high.” That is to say, he had done what he had to do, he had made the adjustment, he had put his face to the adjustment and at that time it was not as easy to communicate as it is now.

And the people were angry with “Gringo.” Why, another bastard. He buttoned his tailcoat, put on his hat, took his cane and walked down the stairs to his house. And, obviously, they called him anything but nice. However, history remembers him as the storm pilot. Not in vain, when Convertibility was launched, on April 1, 1991, the ticket that Dr. Domingo Felipe Cavallo chose for that ticket was, precisely, Carlos Pellegrini, the storm pilot. And the advertising said: “Argentina has weight again,” and boy did it achieve it.

And naturally, as it could not be otherwise, there is the bust of Julio Argentino Roca, twice president of Argentina, the first Argentine president to be elected president twice, and if it were not for Carlos, he would have been the best president of history. Regarding this, I want to comment on why I say what I say, that is, I say, that Menem's government was the best in history, that is, it is not something that I invented. There is a wonderful work called “Passing the buck” by Gerardo Della Paolera, Bozzoli and Irigoin, which basically what it does is develop the macroeconomic pressure index to be able to compare the different governments of the Argentine Republic throughout history. . And when he does that work, he shows you that Menem's first government is the best government in Argentine history, while Menem's second government, so criticized, occupies third place, that is, it is bad, it was not as they say.

But in the face of criticism and the issue of grandmother's jewel, and everything, let's say, the criticism that mediocre people make to discredit the good things that are done. In this context, Gerardo Della Paolera and his co-authors decide to correct said index, cleaning up the effect of privatizations. And yet despite that, Menem's first government remains the best in history and the second falls to sixth place. So, whether it hurts or not, he has been the best president in history.

In fact, among the many privileges that life has given me, among them is having met one of the authors, Gerardo Della Paolera, and he says “If that index could contemplate microeconomic reforms, the two Menem governments would win by scandal.” ”. So, let's say, if there is something that I always said, it is that he was the best president in history, and today I come and reaffirm it with the honor and pride of being unveiling this bust. Now, finally, a probably much funnier anecdote, especially if you put it in context and visualize it, because it shows Menem's leadership. Why was Menem a superlative leader?

The Bunge and Born Plan had blown up, let's say, Erman González's model had collapsed and they were in Olivos, they were precisely Cavallo and there was Guido Di Tella, a brilliant man if I add it up. And…, Gerardo Della Paolera told me this, because he was there in Olivos. And Carlos, while Domingo and Guido were fighting to see how they could find a way back, Menem came down, ready to play tennis, with white shorts, a white T-shirt, the two white wristbands, the headband, in other words a complete Vilas, the racket and the balls. That is, while the other two were killing each other, Menem comes almost dressed as Vilas. Then he tells them that he was going to go play tennis and that when he came back they would have everything finished. Indeed, when he returned, let's say, everything was in order.

Why do I mention this? Because it has to do with leadership. A true leader shows himself and is made clear by the people who accompany him. And if there is something that characterized Carlos Menem's government, it was that he always surrounded himself with the best. He was never afraid to surround himself with talented people, and that was what showed him to be the great leader that he was.

And if there is at least one thing that I think I can be closer to being able to copy, it is, precisely, surrounding myself with the best, and that I am truly proud of the economic team and all the cabinet team that I have, with which we are going to take Argentina ahead. Thanks a lot.
