Announcements by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, on national television, from the White Room of the Casa Rosada

Wednesday, December 20, 2023

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50266-anuncios-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-por-cadena-nacional-desde-el-salon-blanco-de-la-casa-rosada

Announcements by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, on national television, from the White Room of the Casa Rosada

Argentines, today is a historic day for our country, after decades of failures, impoverishment, decadence and anomie, today we formally begin the path of reconstruction. Since we took office, just 8 business days ago, we have been focused on trying to contain the enormous crisis that we inherited, for that we designed a Shock stabilization plan that includes a fiscal adjustment plan, an exchange rate policy that adjusted the exchange rate to market value, and a monetary policy that includes the sanitation of the Central Bank.

We are doing our utmost to try to reduce the tragic effects of what may be the worst crisis in our history, a product of decades of governments that have insisted on failed recipes, because as we said all these months: “The problem is not the chef. , but the recipe.” Those ideas that failed in Argentina are the same ideas that have failed throughout the planet, because wherever they have been attempted they have been an economic failure, they have been a social failure, they have been a cultural failure, And on top of that, they have cost the lives of millions of human beings. That doctrine, which some might call left, socialism, fascism, communism, and which we like to classify as collectivism, is a form of thought that dilutes the individual in favor of the power of the State. It is the basic foundation of the caste model, it is a doctrine of thought that is based on the premise that the reason of State is more important than the individuals that make up the Nation; that the individual is only recognized if he submits to the State, and that, therefore, citizens owe homage to their representatives, the political caste. That is to say, that individuals are nothing more than a means to the ends of the State; It is a way of seeing the world that consists of the belief that a group of men, politicians, are superior to the rest of the individuals and that therefore they should be the ones to govern the destinies of their compatriots. A doctrine that is based on the idea that a group of bureaucrats, sitting in an office, can plan the lives of millions of human beings, considering their desires, abilities, preferences and circumstances. It is a doctrine that considers that politicians, consequently, are omnipresent, omniscient and omnipotent, that is, in essence it is a doctrine that considers that politicians are God.

Well, we have come to tell you that politicians are not only not God, but they are the cause of our problems. They are the cause of our problems because for decades they have defended these impoverishing ideas that we talked about, while they became richer and richer; because it is the merciless implementation of these ideas for more than 100 years, which led us little by little, step by step, to the economic hell that we live today.

The process has been gradual, and along this path we have become accustomed and taken as normal state interference that is the cause of our problems. The balance is the country we received, the worst inheritance in history, a country with a consolidated deficit of 15% of GDP, where 5% of the deficit is from the Treasury and 10% from the Central Bank; a country that spends so much that it cannot pay for it even with the highest blank tax burden in the world; a country without reserves in the Central Bank and with its credit confidence destroyed; a country that has issued money for 20 points of GDP to finance that public spending, and that now, as a result of that unbridled emission, faces its worst crisis in 40 years; a country that was on its way to crashing into annual inflation of 15,000%, and that requires an urgent change of course to avoid disaster. That change begins today.

A central aspect of the failure of the last 100 years is the interference of the State that it has had in the lives of citizens, from this belief that politicians are superior beings who must govern the destinies of each of us, a scaffolding emerges. institutional that means that no one can work, trade, circulate or be educated without their permission; while in a free society everything is allowed, except what is prohibited. In a collectivist society like in Argentina, everything is prohibited, except what is allowed by politicians.

In clear opposition to the spirit of our Liberal Constitution, which sought to restrict the arbitrary power of the State in defense of the life, liberty and property of individuals. During the last 100 years, politicians have been busy expanding the power of the State to the detriment of good Argentines; This expansion of the State has been accompanied by the greatest destruction of wealth in a country on record. Our country, which at the beginning of the 20th century was the leading world power, over the last 100 years, has been immersed in an endless cycle of crises that all have the same cause at their origins: the fiscal deficit. In fact, of the last 23 years, in 113 of them, we have had a fiscal deficit and of the 22 crises that Argentines have suffered in our history, 20 have had fiscal origins. But since the political class has never wanted to attack the cause of our problems, they have systematically resorted to debt, monetary issuance or tax increases to alleviate this deficit.

The consequence of these decisions is that Argentina is the largest serial defaulter in the world. We have removed 13 zeros from the currency, we have destroyed five monetary signs, we have had two hyperinflations without wars and we have the highest blank tax pressure in the world.

What must be understood is that the problem is the deficit and that the solutions that politicians resort to, far from fixing the problem, make it worse. The use of debt as a deficit financing mechanism, the inevitable default, produces an increase in country risk. The rise in interest rates, the fall in investment and, finally, miserable real wages.

The monetary issue, as has already been demonstrated theoretically and empirically, is the only cause of inflation, which is a hidden regressive tax, which hinders the price signal, destroys investment and the purchasing power of Argentines.

The indiscriminate and continuous increase in taxes violates the property rights of Argentines, against savings, and investment, and consequently also generates miserable real wages.

To solve the problems caused by the different politicians who try to finance the deficit instead of addressing the cause, which is the fiscal deficit, politicians introduce regulations, price controls, stocks, bureaucratic obstacles and regulations, which violate freedom and the right of property of Argentines, hinders economic calculation and destroys the generation of wealth.

Consequently, the State – as a whole – has become a machine that prevents commerce, work, production, savings, investment, the generation of wealth, economic growth and, fundamentally, freedom.

The consequence of this is that Argentina is a country where 50 percent of the population is below the poverty line, more than 10 percent of the population is indigent in a country that produces food for 400 million human beings, with a tax pressure on the agricultural sector of 70 percent and the State keeps the food of 280 million human beings and there are 5 million Argentines, who do not have enough to eat.

Private employment has stagnated at 6 million jobs for more than a decade. GDP per capita is 15 percent lower than in 2011; a third of formal workers are poor. Furthermore, we have a low unemployment rate, but that is explained by precarious employment and miserable real wages, and 6 out of 10 children – between zero and 14 years old – are poor.

I want to pause for a second on this figure that you just heard: 6 out of every 10 children, between 0 and 14 years old, are poor. That is the tragedy we are experiencing, the product of a political and economic model that threatens freedom. Nothing is more important than reversing this tragic trend, which jeopardizes our future and therefore our focus on the importance of human capital as an engine of economic growth. Well, today, we take the first step to end the model of decline.

Today, I have signed a Decree of Necessity and Urgency (DNU) to begin to unblock this oppressive legal and institutional framework that has destroyed our country.

Since our economic model, unlike everything that has been done in the last hundred years, attacks the deficit that is the cause of our problems and not the consequences of it, we can begin, today, to unblock all these regulations, which we pretend provide solutions, but they only generate problems.

The Decree of Necessity and Urgency that we are presenting today is intended to begin the process of economic regulation, which Argentina needs so much to be able to begin to grow. Among many reforms the decree includes:

1- Repeal of the Rental Law so that the real estate market works again without problems and renting is not an odyssey.
2- Repeal of the Supply Law so that the State never again attacks the property rights of individuals.
3- Repeal of the Gondola Law so that the State stops interfering in the decisions of Argentine merchants.
4- Repeal of the National Purchase Law, which only benefits certain power players.
5- Repeal of the Price Observatory, of the Ministry of Economy, to avoid any persecution of companies.
6- Repeal of the Industrial Promotion Law.
7- Repeal of the Trade Promotion Law.
8- Repeal of the regulations that prevent the privatization of public companies.
9- Repeal of the State Companies Regime.
10- Transformation of all State companies into public limited companies for subsequent privatization.
11- Modernization of the labor regime to facilitate the process of generating genuine employment.
12- Reform of the Customs Code to facilitate international trade. From today it is prohibited to prohibit exports.
13- Repeal of the Land Law to promote investments.
14- Modification of the Fire Law.
15-Derogation of the obligations of sugar mills, which they have in matters of sugar production.
16- Liberation of the legal regime applicable to the wine sector.
17- Repeal of the national mining trade system and the mining information bank.
18- Authorization for the transfer of the total or partial share package of Aerolíneas Argentinas.
19- Implementation of the Open Skies policy.
20- Modification of the Civil and Commercial Code to reinforce the principle of contractual freedom between the parties.
21- Modification of the Civil and Commercial Code to guarantee that obligations contracted in foreign currency must be paid in the agreed currency.
22- Modification of the regulatory framework for pre-paid medicine and social works.
23- Elimination of price restrictions on the prepaid industry.
24- Incorporation of prepaid medicine companies into the social work regime.
25- Reestablishment of the electronic prescription to speed up the service and minimize costs.
26- Modifications to the regime of pharmaceutical companies to promote competition and reduce costs.
27- Modification of the Companies Law so that football clubs can become public limited companies, if they so wish.
28- Deregulation of satellite Internet services to allow the entry of companies, such as Starlink.
29- Deregulation of the tourism sector by eliminating the monopoly of tourism agencies.
30- Incorporation of digital tools for Automotive Registry procedures.

These reforms, of which I have only mentioned 30, of the more than 300 included, are some of the reforms that are contemplated in the DNU, which we signed today.

The objective is to begin the path of reconstruction of our country, return freedom and autonomy to individuals and begin to dismantle the enormous amount of regulations that have prevented, hindered and stopped economic growth in our country. But this is only the first step, because in the coming days we will call extraordinary sessions of the National Congress and send a package of laws asking Congress for collaboration to advance this process of changes, which society chose, in a context of crisis. , which requires immediate action.

The Deputies and Senators of the Nation will face the historic responsibility of choosing between being part of this change or obstructing the most ambitious reform project of the last 40 years in order to finally be able to launch the productive forces of Argentines and begin to walk the path to becoming a world power again.

I trust that our representatives will defend the interests of Argentines and not those of the castes, who have benefited for decades from this impoverishing system. If we advance on this path and do so with determination and forcefulness, I am sure that our country will return to the path of growth and progress that we once knew how to travel.

Therefore, I want to thank you, may God bless the Argentines and may the Forces of Heaven be with us.
