Words by President Javier Milei at the event commemorating the 42nd anniversary of Veterans Day and those who fell in the Malvinas War

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50420-palabras-del-presidente-javier-milei-en-el-acto-en-conmemoracion-del-42-aniversario-del-dia-de-veterano-y-de-los-caidos-en-la-guerra-de-malvinas

Tuesday April 2, 2024

Words by President Javier Milei at the event commemorating the 42nd anniversary of Veterans Day and those who fell in the Malvinas War

Today we are gathered here 42 years after the start of the Malvinas War to commemorate and pay tribute to our Heroes, those who fell in combat, and their families, the best tribute to those who gave their lives for our country is to defend the unwavering claim for Argentine sovereignty over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich and the surrounding maritime spaces but a real and sincere claim, not mere words in international forums with no impact on reality and that only serve the politician in office to impose a false love for the country. We have grown tired of listening over the last few decades to politicians beating their chests defending our just claim to the Islands without having a single result for us to show after all these years.

For sovereign claims to be heard and respected, it is a necessary condition first that the country and its leadership be respected since no one would take seriously the claim of corrupt serial despoilers or political leaders who, more than a vision of the country, what they defend is a model. of business for a sovereign Nation to be respected in the concert of Nations there are two essential conditions that must be met. That Nation must be a protagonist in international trade and must also have Armed Forces capable of defending its territory against anyone who tries to invade it. Nobody listens to or respects a country that only produces poverty and whose politicians despise their own forces. Argentina, as a result of political diligence in recent decades, has not met either of the two conditions just outlined.

It is no coincidence that little or no progress has been made in the claim for our Islands. We are, after decades, the first government that takes charge of this situation and has a clear direction to make a country truly prosperous and sovereign. You don't have to go very far or invent anything new. There was a generation of leaders in our country that we remember today as the generation of '80, who consolidated our territorial sovereignty and set the course for us to accomplish such a task. Of that generation, the main inspiration for our claim to sovereignty is the great General Julio Argentino Roca, the father of modern Argentina.

Of that generation, the main inspiration for our claim to sovereignty, as I said, is the great General Julio Argentino Roca, the father of modern Argentina. He understood like no one else the mandate of a prosperous economy and a respected Armed Forces as the basis of a great Nation. This April 2 and in tribute to our veterans and their families, we have to take up his example. Argentina is the eighth largest country in the world, it has full sovereignty over our more than 3.5 million square kilometers, it requires a thriving and vigorous economy. An economy that generates wealth and opportunities in every corner of the country. There is no sovereignty without economic and common prosperity. All empirical evidence shows that there is no economic prosperity without economic freedom.

Precisely in economic matters, the presidents of the so-called generation of the 80s did nothing other than what we propose today: a State restricted to its essential functions and freedom to produce, work, trade and circulate thanks to them, Argentina was populated There was order, progress and opportunity throughout the country. From being a land of barbarians, we became a land of opportunities for millions of immigrants who arrived to forge their own destiny. All the reforms that we promote today are so that we Argentines can be free again and from this freedom a strong and prosperous Nation will emerge with real power to claim its sovereignty and be respected by other nations.

But as President Roca demonstrated, the economy alone is not enough. There is no sovereignty, there is no international respect for our interests, if the political leadership does everything possible to tarnish the name of our Armed Forces. In the years when our sovereignty was consolidated, the Armed Forces were valued by the entire leadership and by society. Wearing a uniform was a source of enormous pride. Politics has wanted to erase this from our collective memory, harassing and humiliating our forces, but what claim to sovereignty is possible if the leadership of a country dedicates itself to belittling and harassing its Armed Forces? What tribute to the Malvinas Heroes can be sincere without simultaneously financing groups and organizations that do nothing but discredit our forces? To the Heroes of the Malvinas and our Armed Forces I say, that time has ended, you are a source of pride for our Nation and in this new Argentina you will have the respect that has been long denied to you. But I also do not want respect for the Armed Forces and the Heroes of the Malvinas to be a monopoly of a political space. No! Our military and veterans deserve something bigger and more lasting than that. That is why I call on society as a whole and the political leadership to inaugurate this April 2 a new era of reconciliation with the Armed Forces that transcends this government. An era that pays sincere tribute to its Heroes, giving the Armed Forces the recognition and support they deserve.

An era where support for the Armed Forces comes accompanied by a prosperous and thriving economy so that they can have the resources and technologies necessary to defend our homeland with dignity. An era where we live up to the sacrifice of our Heroes and Fallen, where they can see from heaven and earth a prosperous and great Argentina again. An era in which every Argentine, in every corner of our country, feels gratitude towards those who by vocation decide to wear the uniforms of the country and exalt the colors of our flag. We will take the first step of this new doctrine on May 25 at Docta, in the province of Córdoba, where we will sign the May Pact, establishing the ten State policies of the new Argentine economic order and for which I want to extend a special invitation. not only to the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Armed Forces but also to the Malvinas veterans organizations so that they can be witnesses and banners of the new Argentina.

Finally, I want to reiterate our unwavering claim for the Islands and I commit that, during our government, we will be able to have a clear roadmap for the Malvinas to return to Argentine hands. To the veterans, their families and all those who wear a uniform in defense of the homeland, I want to thank you for your service on behalf of all the Argentine people. May God bless the Argentines and may the forces of heaven be with us. Thank you very much and long live fucking freedom, long live fucking freedom, long live fucking freedom!
