Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the presentation of his book at Luna Park

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50509-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-la-presentacion-de-su-libro-en-el-luna-park

Wednesday, May 22, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the presentation of his book at Luna Park

Javier Milei: Hello everyone. Thank you very much to everyone who has been present at this true celebration of freedom. First of all, in addition to thanking the Chief, my sister, I also want to thank each of my ministers who are present; thank the deputies and senators who are here celebrating the celebration of Freedom. And since one cannot be ungrateful, hey, we have to thank the Book Fair Foundation, who gave us this party with the boycott attempt. Thank you Kirchnerists. It looks like you were going to need more than ten José Hernández rooms to receive this.

Well, now let's go, because basically I come to present my recent book called “Capitalism, socialism, in the neoclassical trap.” And, actually, the subtitle is "From economic theory to political action." Therefore, the book is structured in three blocks. A first block is the introduction, in the introduction what we do is present the most emblematic speeches that we have given since we have been here in politics.

In that sense, the first of the articles in the introduction is the acceptance speech for the honorary Doctorate at ESEADE, which is an article where I give a tour of how my thinking has mutated over the years, from being the who is called a post-Keynesian, a Marxist Keynesian, until I proudly became a disciple of the Austrian, liberal-libertarian, anarcho-capitalist school.

Then, the second article is basically the talk, the Davos speech, the day we told the world: 'Argentina is present and is coming to raise the ideas of freedom like no one else in the world.' The third lecture that appears in this introduction is a lecture I gave at CIPAC in Washington, where I explain the risks involved in embracing neoclassical ideas regarding monopolies and, in light of that, how economic regulation ends up destroying economic growth. It is true that this article could be part of what is part 1, which are technical articles, but given the relevance that that speech had and that it is complemented by the Davos speech, you will find it there. On the other hand, the closing of this section is basically the opening speech of the Legislative Assembly, that is, that famous speech where I went and stood in front of Congress and told them everything that Argentine citizens wanted to say to their faces, and we told them.

I can assure you that I would accompany them singing, but it would violate the independence of the powers. Don't you think I already have enough quilombos? Good.

Hey, Mondino is going to ask me for overtime.

Well, in what is called part 1 of the book, there is actually what has to do with the structure of this idea of ​​capitalism, socialism and democracy. And there you will find five articles: there is one where the problem is posed from the perspective of the history of economic thought and it is where I try to trace the problem within economic theory, which I am going to explain later, all these appear problems for neoclassical theory. There is a second article that raises the same problem, but from my field of specialization, which is economic growth and that article will later be linked when we go to the macroeconomic model part of part 2.

On the other hand, the third article is the article, if you want, where it is mostly concentrated, it is an article that is in English, published in the Polgrave of Austrian Economy, where they summoned the most important Austrians in the world. It seems that some, who know a lot, forgot them and, by mistake, among themselves. And it will be in that article, it is an article, furthermore, written in honor of Jesús Huerta de Soto.

And then they will find an application to taxes, and that part closes with an application to the cultural battle and the design of policies, and how to confront and fight head-on the socialism of the 21st century, and the strategy that they were building based on it. to Gramsci with the logic of the group of what was called the San Pablo Forum, and now the Puebla Group. That is, those enemies who, suddenly, try to overthrow this government because they want socialism and misery to continue.

Regarding part 2, what is presented there is a model of intertemporal macroeconomics, which serves to understand how I look at these problems. Where, furthermore, what you are going to find is that all modern macroeconomics is written in terms of economic growth. Basically, from my point of view, at the intermediate level, because at the advanced level the best book is that of Dr. Federico Sturzenegger, who is here present. There is a book by Barro, which is called Macroeconomics and works with the idea of ​​the Solow model. In that sense, I replicated the type of exercise, then I raised the problems that he, Solow, has and the first patch appears, due to a problem called dynamic efficiency, that the first patch is Phelps' rule, but it is only a problem.

This model is then improved and put into mathematical terms, specifically, intertemporal, with intertemporal optimization, which is a network, an improvement over the Ramsey model of 1928, which was made in the mid-60s by two economists, one called Cass and another called Koopman. However, despite that, they could not find a way to explain economic growth. I mean, what's more, when these models were tested in real life, they only explained 15%, and the rest was called residual. I'm going to say that: the model did not explain anything, everything was left out of the model. In that sense, a couple of patches were made, which I also explain how it is fixed, which is the incorporation of human capital or the incorporation of technological progress, and in that way you can explain economic growth.

However, the problem is that all these elements are given exogenously, that is, everything is hand-made and the dynamics are described by hand, therefore, it is a patch with which we economists live, but we have to know that It's a patch. But I'm going to tell you something, because my next book - which I'm going to write with Dr. Demian Reidel, who's here, the genius that's there - we found the solution, so I'm already letting you know that the one coming up behind has the solution.

And then what you do is... economic thinking evolves towards models of real cycles and then exhausts a set of assumptions so that the Solow appears again and remains manageable for the general public. But, unlike Barro's model, which goes down through the labor market, in this case we go down through the capital market. Going down the capital market, we not only derive the demand for labor, but also, since capital is what companies call assets, on the other side we are left with debt and equity, that is, the financing of the companies. And that allows us to integrate the capital market with the monetary market. And in that way, everything is integrated: money, capital markets and the real side of the economy. It's a pretty fun contribution.

And, naturally, this ends with the extension to an open economy. But the core of the book is what is called part 1, which is what is precisely called “Capitalism, socialism and the neoclassical trap.” So, the first thing to think about is, well, it's funny because some people tell me: “Hey, you work 16 hours a day, I mean, when do you write? Well, when do you read?” Well, I do what I can.

But, strictly speaking, this paper or this work, if you want, started 11 years ago. I was basically... it's supposed to be my specialization, economic growth, with and without money, and I ran into a problem that we economists regularly encounter when we look at growth problems, which is called "the hockey stick." There is an economist - may he rest in peace - called Angus Maddison, and what he did was estimate the GDP per capita of the different countries in the world throughout history, in general they could go until before year zero of the era. Christian, but they have no difference.
So, in general, you are going to find a series from the year zero of the Christian era to the year 2000, and obviously it has updates, that is.

And the interesting thing is that when you look at the GDP per capita during the 1800 years of that series, the GDP per capita is practically constant. The only increase it had was 40% in the 16th century, that is, after the discovery of America. And that, spread over 1800 years, meant that the economy grew in per capita terms by 0.02%. That is, you needed 3,500 years to double the GDP per capita. The economy was moving very slowly, very slowly. The interesting thing is that in the year 1800, 800 million human beings lived on the planet, that is, we did not reach one billion, and when you take the year 2000, the population multiplied almost eight times and the GDP per capita decreased. multiplied by 14 times.

That in economics is a huge problem, it is called increasing returns. And the first one to see this was Adam Smith with the idea of ​​the pin factory. But increasing returns in economics are usually associated with the presence of monopolies, and for neoclassicals, monopolies are bad, because monopolies punish welfare. And the question is whether in the year 1800 95% of the population of planet Earth was below the extreme poverty line and in the year 2000 that number was less than 10%, the population having multiplied eight times and having living standards such as we have never had in the history of humanity. Can you explain to me why in my head it is possible that concentrated structures are bad? It was obvious there was a problem there, and that's what this is about.

Faced with that problem, I then said, "I have some strange problem with the microphone." After almost 25 years of teaching micro classes, something is wrong. And there I had the good fortune to come across an article, "The wonderful Murray Newton Rothbardl", the father of anarcho-capitalism, which is called "Monopoly and Competition".

The first thing is that it is an article that you can find in Spanish, and the translation is made by Alberto Venegas Lynch Sr., that is, the father of the hero and Berti's grandfather.

I remember that, after 3 hours of reading that 140-page article, I finished reading it and said “everything I taught about market structure for 25 years is all wrong.” And there I became an Austrian anarcho-capitalist, everything. It was a total revelation.

Because the problem of monopoly, you have first what Hasley called, the difference between the good and the bad economist in the book of economics in one lesson, which is the difference, is that while the bad economist only looks at a single sector , a single period, the good economist looks at the general equilibrium, that is, he does not only look at one sector, but he looks at all the other sectors and not only considers the short-term effects but also the long-term ones; That is, the bad economist works with a partial equilibrium model of a single good and a single period to an intertemporal general equilibrium model.

So, for example, a certain brand of car may have a monopoly on that car, but it also competes with others, and there is substitution. And you can compete

one with another. But now I'm going to make it more violent. Suppose we have the case of a company that produces cell phones and competes with nine others, then you have 10 companies competing and now a company appears that manages to make a cell phone with much better features and at a much lower cost, that is, a good. of better quality, at a better price, what do you think is going to happen with the remaining nine? They are going to go bankrupt. And what's wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with it, it's wonderful, if you now have a phone ten times better, ten times cheaper, and you have a lot of money left to spend on a lot of other things, come on.

Of course, but there we are going to say something uncomfortable to the politicians and that is that in reality the only monopolies that are bad, which is the true definition of a monopoly that was created by Lord Coke, a visionary Lord Coke, and it is the one that Adam Smith takes What a monopoly is when the Monarch or the feudal lord gave a company the power to become the only company that sold that product in that place and that if someone violated that, the State would fall on them with all the force. That is, monopoly is bad when the one in the middle is the State. Therefore, the problem remains the damn State.

Therefore, the inspiration started at that moment, and it was then to find where the problem was in the neoclassical instrumental. The other element that the article has, because notice that it is called "Capitalism, socialism and the neoclassical trap", that is, that the neoclassical system constitutes a trap and I mention capitalism and socialism. I take that from two authors: one is Ludwig von Mises and the other is Friedrich von Hayek.

If you review the work of Misses, Misses is going to tell you with crystal clarity that there are only two systems. On one side you will find free enterprise capitalism, free enterprise capitalism. And on the other side, opposite, they will find real socialism. Now, that's the two poles. And the other book that I use as a reference in this is a book that just turned 80 years old, which is "The Road to Serfdom." What is the plot of "The Road to Serfdom"? If I messed up the number of years, I apologize. I mean, more or less they are.

In that sense, what Hayek was pointing out is that when a fatally arrogant politician began to intervene in a market because he believed that there was a market failure, the emerging result was that it worked worse. And in that situation it unleashed more violence and frustration on the part of the politician and led him to have a greater degree of intervention. And thus, individual freedoms were consequently lost as the economic system functions increasingly worse. That is why the path of servitude, the path to misery, the trap that socialist goodism leads us to misery, because it demands more and more intervention and the economy will function worse, while at the same time we have less freedom and the mechanism is blocked. coordination and information generation.

In fact, Milton Friedman had put this in other terms and, with that genius that Milton Friedman had for this type of thing, he says: "Often, the State's solution to a market failure is a much worse solution." Wow, we have a good example with Argentina. So, if we had to understand this, the first thing we had to understand was what the market was. And this is very interesting, because my experience of interacting with many economists is that, when you ask them what the market is, they don't know. I mean, I don't know, it's like a doctor not knowing what a leg is. What do I know, it's weird.
So, that led me to explore what the definition of a market is, at least my definition. I understand the market as a process of social cooperation where property rights are voluntarily exchanged.

Now, the point is that, if there is private property, consequently, there is no State. That makes sense because what does the pricing system do? The price system is a signal transmission, coordination and adjustment mechanism. That is, when you make a transaction, a price is recorded. That price becomes a signal that coordinates the agents, some will be buyers, others will be sellers, they will begin to interact and, to the extent that supply and demand differ, prices will be modified until equilibrium is found. Obviously, if the State appears in the middle interfering with private property, that generates a noise in the price and, therefore, the market becomes uncoordinated. And then, things start to go wrong.

So, that is also very attractive. So now I was putting myself in conflict with friends, because I was putting myself in conflict with those from Chicago, who are also liberals, but they are neoclassical liberals. They are liberals, stop fooling around. I mean, let's not get into the twenty-fifth series purism behind Taylor's development, because if not, we'll be eaten by lefties. If not, we can go back to those who had meetings and that an elevator was too big for them, that the vibe they are putting into the talk is fun, but I'm supposed to be talking about economic theory.

So what is happening? You will find that in the Chicago tradition, well in the neoclassical tradition, the only element why the State exists is because we are faced with the presence of market failures. Therefore, the only thing that justifies the existence of the State and the collection of taxes is for the State to correct these market failures. But what is happening? That definition didn't fit me... with the definition of the market, it didn't map to me. And in that sense, my reflection, which is obviously going to seem to someone a little extreme like everything I do. In that context, one of the things I say is: market failures do not exist. If you consider that there is a market failure, the first thing I suggest is that you check that there is no State intervention. Because if there is State intervention, the problem is not the market, the problem is not the people, the problem is the politicians.

But obviously, if the definition left it there, it was very light. So, to make it a little more reloaded I said: 'And if you believe, even so, without the State being there, there is a market failure, go and do the analysis again because it is wrong.' And the interesting thing is that neoclassical analysis and economists, I believe that definitely at some point we got sick and lost our compass. What is a model? A model is a simplified representation of reality. Now, if the model does not map to reality, what does a reasonable normal head do? Throw away the model and look for one that maps to reality. Well, the neoclassicals went so crazy that they call it 'market failure'. So now we have to find out why economists do that. So, in order to find where the origin of all that is, what did I do to myself? I went to dad, not you, to Adam Smith. You and your business, what do you do... The father of the child is there. The mom too.

So what did I do? I went to Adam Smith. And the most interesting thing is that Adam Smith contained a model of economic growth. The guy, Adam Smith, is to economics what Gauss is to mathematics, someone who was 200 years ahead of his time. Of course, that's why he was also half crazy, he didn't give in to anyone. That is, Gauss was much more complicated.

Here I go, I'm coming, but stop spoiling the titles for me.

Basically, there are two strong ideas in Adam Smith: one is the idea of ​​the pin factory, which was what said that if a person dedicated himself to making a pin alone, he could produce 20 pins per day, but if they divided that activity In 15 different activities, per capita productivity jumped to 5,000 pins per day. An idea that the division of labor leads to increasing returns, that is, that the fundamental element that explains economic growth was in Adam Smith, a work published in 1776, but that he had begun writing it in 1766, or that is, 10 years before. And the other idea, which is one of the most wonderful ideas and everyone was fascinated by it, is the idea of ​​the invisible hand. And each one, guided by his own interest, leads to maximum general well-being. Therefore, we do not need anyone to get in the way, as long as we do what we want to do, it is enough, as long as we do not screw up anyone's life.

So, there, since the party pooper could not be missing and who ruined everything and who considered Adam Smith to be a madman, that is, whoever saw it was treated as a madman, he invented the idea of ​​diminishing marginal returns. It was a pretty simple idea. He said: well, people arrive and what do they do, they settle in the most productive field and when more people arrive

It is going to fields that are increasingly less productive. And that's how diminishing marginal returns appear. Basically, what Malthus wanted to explain was a truly aberrant thing, which was called 'the iron law of wages', which said that as per capita income rose, the passion of the sexes guided people to have more. children and, as he had more children and marginal productivity was decreasing, there was a moment where that found a balance. And if the population spread beyond that place, then real wages were destroyed and people starved. And how did Malthus come to correct this? With birth control, modern versions of which are abortionists.

That, by the way, if you go and read the book of Shemot, that is, the second book of the Pentateuch, that is, the Exodus, you will find that already at that time it was a mechanism to massacre populations that were using the Egyptians to liquidate the Jews. And if you want more, here in time, what is inspiring today's entire murderous agenda is the Club of Rome. When the files of this man Nixon are declassified, what is found is that, inspired by all the predictions of the Club of Rome, which said that when we reached the year 2000 there would be no room for more people on the planet and there would be produce an energy blackout and that was going to make the amount of food production fall, and we were going to die and be left with a billion. Then, they suggested promoting the abortion agenda. That is to say, what they believe to be so advanced with the abortion agenda is an agenda that is more than three thousand years old and is an absolutely murderous agenda by a couple of salamis who made bad accounts.

“But Mr. Milei is a science denier.” So, the analysis continued, the economic analysis. Obviously, among the heirs of Malthus there is David Ricardo, there is John Stuart Mill, and after John Stuart Mill there appear two sinisters like Rodbertus and Karl Marx.

But, faced with the resounding failure, due to not being able to have a good theory of value, something that the reds have not yet learned, the subjective theory of value appears and the neoclassical school appears. And there three aspects appear, the aspect of the Austrian School appears, which comes from Menger, from a book called 'Principle of Political Economy', which is from 1871; A line appears that comes down from William Stanley Evans and another line that comes down from León Walras, which is the line of general equilibrium. In this line of general equilibrium, when you begin to apply mathematics to the economy, a derivative effect is that a man named Wilfredo Pareto appears, whose ideas influenced a disastrous left-wing man called Mussolini, who invented the doctrine of fascism. and who openly declares that he hates liberalism, says that “within the State everything, outside the State nothing and nothing against the State.” Hey, how ignorant, what they call us fascists, right?

And the idea of ​​Pareto optimality was that if you had a situation where you could make someone better without making anyone worse, take it with Pareto. Let's see, we can return to the Pareto optimal, I assure you that I will finish in a little while and the main course is coming with Adorni, with Espert, but I finish three things and let's go.

Hey, thank goodness they finished us... we couldn't go to the Book Fair otherwise we had to leave at the time. So, we can be there all day.

Let's go to the idea of ​​Pareto optimality. The idea of ​​Pareto optimality said that if you had a situation in which to make someone better you had to make someone else worse, then you were in an optimal state. If you had a situation where you could improve someone without screwing up anyone's life, you could make a Paretian improvement. In other words, there was no optimum. And if you correct that situation, when those welfare gains are exhausted, they are at the Pareto optimum. In other words, the idea of ​​a stationary economy seemed quite reasonable.

Now, what is happening? As we said, that world that existed from the year zero to 1800 disappeared with the industrial revolution, and the economy began to grow and improvements in the quality of life began to be noticed. And one of the things that economists began to realize is that there were increasing returns, that is, that the world that Malthus had proposed to confront Adam Smith did not make sense. Then, two economists appeared, one Alfred Marshall, the other Allyn Young, who began to explore how to explain economic growth, that is, how to incorporate the problem of increasing returns into economic theory. And in parallel, then, economists began to work on the microeconomic foundations to generate competitive structures with monopolies. So, Chamberlin's model of monopolistic competition appears, and on the other hand, Joan Robinson's theory of monopoly appears.

Now, all this happened back in the 20s of the last century. The great depression comes, the great depression implies a strong setback for the Austrian School and in the face of this setback that the Austrian School suffers, even though there were other things to explain this problem, one of the darkest things in the history of the humanity next to Marxism, what appears? Who? Keynes, good!

Well, then, that involved blowing up the entire economic analysis. It involved returning, in fact, it implies in some sense, in terms of the theory of value, returning to the labor theory of value. It involved breaking a lot of things. But, obviously, like a sinister and inconsistent mechanism, from the 1950s onwards it began to fail and began to function poorly. Faced with the situation in which it begins to function poorly and where, evidently, that idea of ​​the multiplier was to violate the budget restriction, the economy begins and seeks to resume the tradition of respecting the budget restriction. And, based on the work that had appeared on the existence of equilibrium at the beginning of the 20th century by an economist and mathematician named Abraham Wall, the works of Mackenzi, Debreu and Arrow appear. I'm going to tell an infidelity, I already told it once, I'm going to tell it again. Look, the model, when I read Debreu's model, a Hebrew book, it is called "Theory of Value", I can assure you that it has a mathematical beauty that is super inspiring. I'm going to tell you something, I could almost tell you that I enjoyed it more than my first Playboy. It's poetic license.

So what do these models do? It is working on the idea of ​​the existence of uniqueness and stability. That is, if the balance exists, if it is unique and if it is stable. That is to say, if you introduce a disturbance and it moves out of balance, let's see if the model returns. In that sense, what's the point? Until then there is no problem, because they need to put together a topological construction so that a fixed point theorem can be applied, like Brower's or Cacutani's, depending on whether they work with fusions or with correspondences. The problem lies when, without looking at what was behind that mathematics, they want to introduce the idea of ​​optimality. And when they go to introduce the idea of ​​optimality that was deeply related to the idea of ​​the invisible hand, they begin to demand that these functions begin to generate maximum values. And that means that if I have demand functions that come from maximizing utility, supply functions that come from maximizing benefits; Therefore, if these functions are continuous in a compact, closed, bounded set, with those characteristics, if the functions are continuous, the equilibrium exists and is unique.

In that case, and also if we assume that the direct effects exceed the crossed ones, it is also stable. Now, to achieve the optimality property I need maximization and for that, neoclassical economics erroneously requires that these functions be, in order to have a maximum and be unique, strictly concave. And that is false because you could have an increasing function and when you saturate at the limit you would have the maximum. What's more, in that case also... I mean, what this problem would imply is perhaps an empirical problem that has to do with the nature of the fact that there would be only one company left.

But, in reality, the analysis is poorly designed. And problems arise from this disastrous mechanism, because working with constant returns to scale does not allow us to explain economic growth. And when we have non-convexities, we call it "market failure" and, then, we fight against monopolies or we fight against public goods. How many times do politicians tell you, “no, because this is a public good and the State should provide it”? Look, the best example that was created of public goods was invented by Samuelsson, which were lighthouses. A public good has two characteristics: one is the issue of rivalry, no, a good that has a rival is if I consume it, another cannot consume it. That is consumer rivalry. And another is non-exclusion, if they give it to me, I cannot exclude others; For example, light, I am consuming this light and, however, there is no rivalry in consumption, all of you could consume it, it is not a problem, and furthermore, the one who is giving me that light gives it to me, It cannot exclude you, that is, the lighthouse has those characteristics, it is precisely the definition of pure public good.

Then, a lawyer appeared who did not have his head contaminated with the entire neoclassical apparatus and went to the meetings that Milton Friedman organized at his home in Chicago. I tell you that poor Ronald Coast was bullied like a novel, poor Coast, he charged crazy, but the guy was a genius. So what did he do? Ah, so the lighthouses, in other words, are public assets. So what did he do? He reviewed all the lighthouses from the 19th century. What do you think he discovered? They were all private. Come on!

Other problems that appear are the cases of externalities, which were also solved by Coast by assigning property rights. Then there are the problems of asymmetric information, and the private sector also has its own solutions to deal with the problems of moral hazard, adverse selection and create its own signaling. Or are we not making a fool of ourselves with the principle of revelation?

And yet another case is what is called “coordination failure.” The clearest example is what is called “the prisoners' dilemma.” But no one realized that when they make the assumption to have the prisoners' dilemma, the prisoners cannot interact. That is to say, it is not that the solution cannot be found, the solution is not found because in the middle is who, the damned State that does not let them interact. Therefore, if they raise that assumption, there will be no problem with the prisoners' dilemma. Therefore, this whole idea of ​​market failures, because it does not map against our ideal model of Arrow Debreu, the only thing it does is favor the intervention of the State and every time the State intervenes it generates a false additional in the functioning of the market. which makes it demand more intervention; and in this way they end up condemning us to damned socialism, which is what we have to fight against once and for all. Thank you so much.
