Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the CCK on the occasion of the event for International Holocaust Day

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50478-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-cck-con-motivo-del-acto-por-el-dia-internacional-del-holocausto

Wednesday, May 8, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation Javier Milei at the CCK on the occasion of the event for International Holocaust Day

Javier Milei: “Hello, good afternoon everyone, to begin I want to pay tribute to Lior Rudaeff, an Argentine resident in Israel who was kidnapped and murdered by the terrorist organization Hamas on October 7. I want to extend my sincere condolences to his family and to ask for the return of his body so that he can be properly fired by them, marujada yang jaemet to him and all the victims of Islamic terrorism in Argentina and in the world . Today more than ever there can be no doubt that the scourge of Islamic terrorism on Israel and the Jewish people is not a problem foreign to us Argentines but rather affects us directly, first because 21 Argentines were murdered by Hamas on that day. Tragically, 20 more Argentines were kidnapped and today, 7 months after the attack, there are at least eight compatriots for whom we still do not know if they are still among us or have passed on to another life. Second, because when a battle is fought between good and evil, between freedom and oppression, between civilization and barbarism, taking sides is not an option among others, but a moral obligation.

“Today, we are here to remember perhaps the greatest tragedy in the history of humanity, we do it under the name of Holocaust and Heroism Day and I want to stop to comment with you on this second concept, heroism, because I believe that heroism and the virtue of men is the reverse of tragedy and it is the only thing that can make the righteous prevail over those who seek to oppress them and steal their freedom and because I believe that in times of darkness, when raising one's voice is costly and when the majority prefers to turn his back on righteousness for his own convenience, promoting virtue is a commandment and a duty.”

“Today we remember the Jewish resistance in the Warsaw ghetto, where
300,000 souls were locked up in inhumane conditions for

three years by the Nazi regime and then being transferred to extermination camps, as we all know. We remember that one day in 1943, the prisoners took the few weapons they had and fought for 27 days. They fought for their freedom in conditions of inequality and with practically zero chances of success. They fought for their freedom, a just cause at all times and places. and they chose to die fighting rather than be killed.”

“The fight for freedom, always more powerful than them, has been a constant in the history of the Jewish people and has forged for that people a heroic spirit, a warrior spirit, this is already clear in the sacred scriptures, it is seen in the exodus of the Jewish people of Egypt escaping the yoke of Pharaoh, leaving slavery behind to embrace freedom. The revolt of the Maccabees is clear when, despite being in a clear minority of being the least against the most, the weak against the powerful, they expelled the Greek invader and recovered Jerusalem. The number of soldiers never mattered but rather the forces that came from heaven fighting battle after battle for more than 4,000 years. If you see, many were lost and if you come, the temple of Jerusalem was destroyed twice, the Jewish people persisted and today again, being under threat, surrounded by enemies who pursue an objective similar to the objective of those who imprisoned more than 300,000 souls in the ghetto 80 years ago because the intention of Hamas on October 7 was the same as that of the Nazis, to directly and deliberately innocent people, if they did not do it on a larger scale it was not because they did not want to but because they could not"

“Today, we see in parallel to these sad events a recognition in the world of both intolerant Islamic fanaticism and anti-Semitism in its different versions. And to make matters worse, we see how all these phenomena are not perceived by the free world with the blunt condemnation and firm action that they demand, but with discomfort and ambiguous gestures. I look around me at the rest of the leaders of the free world, especially the leadership of the great nations that should be the pillars of freedom at a global level, and I see indifference in some and in others fear of standing on the side of freedom. TRUE"

“Today the world is silent while there are still more than 100 kidnapped people suffering, of which 8 are Argentine compatriots. Not to mention the blatant anti-Semitism that has become commonplace on the university campuses of educational institutions that are entrusted with the professional and also human training of the elites of the West. I believe that the heroism that we talk so much about and want to promote is also defending the truth, speaking the truth when the truth is silent around us.”

“That is why when the world is silent we have the obligation to speak because it is the silence of the good that allows the barbarity of the bad and because to speak, look straight ahead and not turn a blind eye, even though it is difficult, Although it is inconvenient for many, it is the only way to ensure that the Shoah is not repeated."

“And because God is not going to accept justifications or exculpations when rendering his final judgment, we will not be able to tell him what, but I couldn't or what virtue was not appropriate at that moment, he is not going to judge us for what we thought, believed or we wanted, but for having done the right thing in life.
That is why today remembering the Shoah, remembering heroism and denouncing Islamic terrorism is an obligation, because without heroes we are defenseless in the face of an increasingly darker and longer night.”

“To close, I want to thank Marcelo Mindlin, Jorge Knoblovits and the rest of the authorities of the DAIA and the Holocaust Museum for organizing and inviting me to be part of this commemoration in such a difficult time for the Jewish people that demands that we all work back to back".

“I also want to tell you that Argentina is a historical friend of the Jewish people. We were the first country in the region to recognize the existence of the State of Israel and today we proudly have the Jewish community largest in Latin America and the tenth largest in the world. We have suffered alongside the Jewish community from the cowardly attacks by the government of Iran, not only to the Jewish-Argentine community, but to the entire Argentine people, who due to the insistence of those who seek the truth today, three decades later are beginning to clarify. That is why, in keeping with our history and what we consider true, today we ratify our spirit of friendship and collaboration with the State of Israel and offer the nomination of Argentina for the International Presidency of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. An institution whose value takes on new validity and urgency every day, in a dark moment, in which the rest of the world turns its back on Israel, will find us at its firm side, always.”

“Finally and finally I want to conclude with a letter from Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch, which seems very pertinent to me for these moments we are living in and which should be present every day in our lives. This letter says: Those who are convinced that their opinions are true and correct must express them constantly and at every opportunity frankly and without considering the degree of support they have and the level of opposition they will encounter. The lie needs supporters to succeed, the lie needs the authority of the majority to make up for what it lacks in the rectitude of its argument, the truth on the other hand will always win in the end. Even if it takes time, nobility, brave and pure, expressed with all the ardor of conviction and with all the clarity of a sure conscience expressed again and again on every occasion, will eventually win the respect and esteem even of those who refuse to accept it. The only truth that has been lost without the possibility of recovering it is the one whose possessors do not have the courage to speak frankly about it. The truth was never defeated by the forces of resistance, it was only defeated when its possessors were too weak to defend it. Thank you so much".
