Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the 10 Latam Economic Forum, at the Golden Mercantil Hall

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50530-palabras-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-el-10-latam-economic-forum-en-salon-golden-mercantil

Wednesday June 5, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the 10 Latam Economic Forum, at the Golden Mercantil Hall

Good afternoon. Well, first of all, thank you very much to everyone who is present. Professor Arriazu! Ready, I already won. Thank you Professor. First of all, I want to thank each one of you who is here for contributing to this enormous work carried out by the foundation and the enormous, gigantic work that my dear friend Darío Epstein does to carry this out.

And thank you all, because it is for a good work, charity in the good sense, because it is voluntary and not by force. Basically, what I am going to try to explain is the inheritance we received, what we did, where we are going and are going to go, despite the politics. Yes, and I am going to leave some preliminary ideas about the discussion of convergence, that is, how Argentina can become a developed country.

Basically, we have inherited a disaster and we do not complain about it because a libertarian liberal becoming the first president in the history of humanity could not happen under normal conditions. So we were clear that, if we arrived, he would be in a very complicated situation. At the same time, we were also clear, and we had maintained this during the campaign, that, if the crisis broke out, it would be easier to resolve because the adjustment was going to be imposed by reality itself on politics. And that the complicated case was if it did not explode, but that we were also prepared to solve the case in which it did not explode.

Indeed, it was what we had to do and, fortunately, we began to work on solving Argentina's problems from day one. And that has avoided disaster. Specifically, we have inherited, to put it simply, 17 twin deficit points, in terms of GDP; more or less to have an order of magnitudes: four is a yellow light; eight is red on the way to pineapple, imagine 17. Of those 17, 15 were explained by the fiscal deficit, and the fiscal deficit came five from the Treasury and 10 from the Central Bank. But, in addition - as if that were not enough - within what the fiscal deficit was, those 10 points of GDP we had the highest remunerated liabilities ratio, in terms of monetary base, in history. We were still above levels that had been perceived in 1989, prior to Alfonsín's hyperinflation. But with an additional aggravating factor, and that is that, in a gesture of responsibility, affection and patriotism, the previous government had spent everything in one day. And the real bet of our predecessors was for us to come in, open everything joyfully - from moment zero - and, they really understood that we are libertarians. Now, what they believed was that we ate glass.

No, we don't eat glass. So, in that sense, the bet they had was that this would trigger a great run, that the amount of money would quadruple, in a very few days, that this would trigger hyperinflation and - in the middle of all that mega crisis - they would return. to power, specifically in January, in a context where they were also going to be responsible for generating looting, attacks on supermarkets and all the stories that we already know.

And this in a context where, in addition, we started from a monetary imbalance worse than the one we had before the Rodrigazo and with social indicators worse than those we had, in 2001. That is, a perfect combo by which the caste They made us pay all the adjustment and then they came as saviors and did the great Kirchner thing: grab everything in the fifth basement and show it as a wonderful work, which was nothing more nor less than a rebound and rarely helped by an international context. seen. But that was not the only problem we had, since we also had other problems such as the CIRA debt, which was 50,000 million dollars; we had the problem of trapped dividends. With which, in addition, we had a problem that was not only the problems we had in flows, we had phenomenal stock problems. And the way in which you solve stock problems, if you do not do it correctly and transform them into flows, that jump can automatically generate very complicated consequences in the macroeconomic dynamics.

Especially if the dollar is an advance indicator of what can happen, in terms of prices, consequently, the problem you are going to get yourself into is even bigger.

Because? Because a jump that could be transitory in nature causes the demand for money to drop and that can become unstable and become permanent and a crisis. The other problem we had was that we received an internal debt, about to mature, for the equivalent of 90,000 million dollars; We had foreign debt maturing for 25,000 million dollars, but although the majority was with multilaterals, we had the problem that Argentina had fallen out of the agreement with the International Monetary Fund. It was very interesting because, when they talked and said that we had a program that was not consistent and a lot of things they said, it was interesting because, in general, when you have a characteristic like that that the program is down, at least it They have to be discussing for like three months, and - especially - if there is a new administration. And the interesting thing is that we solved it, in one weekend.

It means that we had not done things so badly. At the same time, we had a problem of international reserves; The net international reserves that we inherited were around negative 11.5 billion dollars, with a gap of 200%. Furthermore, if you look at how economic activity was going, economic activity - during the first part of the year - was falling and then it rose, depending on how the previous government began to pichicate the economy, giving to public spending and financing it with emissions. monetary. To give you an idea, throughout the entire government period, 28 points of GDP were issued to finance the treasury, but of those 28, 13 took place in the election year. That is to say, they were leaving a huge bomb and it was better for it to explode on someone else and return, but we didn't give them the pleasure. The flip side of this was how the issue of inflation came about. The first week, of December, it came at a rate of 1% daily, which is something like 3700% annually. In the second week it accelerates and reaches levels of 7,500% annually. We had done the calculations, in terms of monetary surpluses and so on, and we calculated that, if we did not take urgent measures, inflation could reach levels of 15,000% annually. This, which seemed like an exaggeration, is interesting to see that when you look, in the month of December, wholesale inflation, which usually precedes retail inflation, was 54% monthly. 54% monthly means 17,000% annually.

In reality, that could have happened if we had begun to validate monetarily, which - obviously - we did not do, and wholesale inflation, for the month of April, was 3.4%. That, annualized, gives us almost 50%. Yes, I understand that 50% is horrible, but we came from 17,000. And to have an idea of ​​the magnitude of what was done, then from that, we designed a stabilization plan, a stabilization program. Basically there are different ways to do it. Sometimes it is difficult for me to understand if things are done badly, intentionally, or if they are done badly, out of brute force. That is to say, when you design an economic program, whatever it may be, you cannot demand that the person who will carry it out be and think like you. You have to put yourself in the shoes of whoever is doing it.

So, it would seem ridiculous to me - if we are within a liberal-libertarian program - to start thinking in terms of what I am going to do sectorally, what I am going to do with this, how I am going to control prices, how I am going to manage the dynamics of relative prices. I am a libertarian liberal, I believe in freedom, so sometimes it is like they ask for things that are not within the DNA of what one is going to do, because it is not the only way to do things. In our conception, an economic program has three central elements: what can I contribute from Macro, which is fiscal adjustment. Yes, that is, a fiscal policy, a monetary policy that basically consists of cleaning up the balance sheet of the Central Bank, and an exchange policy to open up about the disaster we had in the external sector.

Afterwards, that thing of looking, touching, dawning the relative prices and having to make a price-salary agreement is not in my conception. That thing about choosing winners is not in my conception and don't even think about asking me because you won't have it. I am liberal-libertarian. In that context, we had to attack the fiscal deficit and the first thing we did was clearly attack the fiscal deficit and we attacked it from two sides. Obviously, with a fiscal adjustment in the Treasury and attacking the Central Bank's balance sheet. In fact, we had said it, in the campaign itself. We were talking about a chainsaw and boy, there was a chainsaw. Now it happens that some said that more than 1 point of GDP could not be adjusted. So, of course, when the adjustment phase started and they ended up being the equivalent of 7, then we began to question the quality of the adjustment. First point: out of 123 years, we had 113 deficits. In other words, how easy it was to make the adjustment was not easy.

Second, point: Have you seen what the degenerate prosecutors are, in action last night? So look what this fight is. But unlike others, with adjustments of half a point of GDP and they ended up flying through the air; We made the adjustment of 7 and we are standing here. And we are going to continue fighting. And every time the fiscal degenerates, from politics, want to go and break the fiscal balance, I tell them now, I said it before, I say it now, and I am going to repeat it ad nauseam: I am going to veto everything, I will don't give a damn.
Then, as we moved forward with this adjustment, serial screwers began to question the quality of the adjustment. And then they said: "A lot of blender and scissors!" Well, Ecuador and scissors. 90% of the adjustment is a chainsaw and only 10% of the adjustment, only if you look in the Treasury, corresponds to the blender. So, among the things we did, which were also impossible until we did them, one of the things we did was we said: "I don't know if you remember, it's my best-known phrase, internationally. I would like you to remember another one." , but this one is remembered, which is one that says: outside". And today they are campaigning - all over the world - with the outside. Well, going outside meant halving the number of ministries and reducing the entire structure of the State by half. And that was not free because - obviously - we fired people. In terms of contracts, we are going to end up laying off 75,000 people. We already have 25,000.

So, not only were the number of ministries reduced by half; we eliminated discretionary transfers to the provinces; we eliminate - outright - public works; we eliminate contracts. Not only that, but one of the things we knew was that the program was going to generate social tension and that it was also going to generate a drop in activity. When you make an adjustment what it does is increase savings. So, if this increase in savings does not have a counterpart in investment, your employment activity, real wages, will fall. So, while we were making the adjustment and we had announced that there was going to be a contraction in activity, which is what happened, during the first quarter of the year, what do we say if we decide to implement a strong social containment policy?
So, we double the AUH; we double the Alimentar Card; we increase school attendance; We multiplied the assistance for children's supplies almost five times, and we also gave financing to the middle class, who go to private schools for what, so that the children would not miss out on going to school, because, given the serious situation they are experiencing the family, if on top of that they lose school and the kids have to start changing schools and have to change classmates and all that generates a very big trauma. For this reason, too, we attacked that, but we did not only do that and we are seeing an enormous task that Minister Pettovello, who has been so torpedoed, did in recent days. That is to say, let's see, we have just made a tremendous adjustment and we only have complaints, from the social level, from the poverty managers.

That is to say, we have grown tired of hearing - in conferences - that we had to put an end to the work of intermediaries, that we had to put an end to corruption in social programs, that we had to get out of welfare so that those who had the misfortune of falling In those unfortunate situations they could move forward with dignity.

We're doing it now, what did you think was free? It is obvious that all the jets, who lost their jobs, were going to get angry, which is what they are seeing and they are operating on her and, therefore, on the government everywhere. Look at the wonderful thing that Minister Pettovello did, together with Minister Bullrich, whom I thank for being present here. And at that time, the Minister of Infrastructure, Guillermo Ferraro.

One of the things that Pettovello discovers, and that he realizes, is that, although the people who received the plans have cards, then one believes that the problem had ended there, so, well, they received cards, of course. But they had to go and verify that they were working, and who did it? The managers of poverty, and that was where they paid the pernada right. In other words, that was where they lost half of the plan and that was also what they used to extort people to go to the marches, that is, we gave them money so that people could have social support; Poverty was seized by the managers and they enslaved the people and used them to march against those who worked, Dantesque.
So, there, at that moment, what does Minister Pettovello discover? At that time, she was criticized a lot. He says: "Since we knew that the first quarter was going to be very hard. During the first quarter, what we say is that they have to stop providing proof of work. Of course, why is that important? Because with the The same money went to the people twice as much. And who do you think they lost with that? So, who was the first to complain? So, the first thing Belliboni did was organize a march. and in that march he said that 50,000 were going to go, because in reality he believed that 100,000 were going to go. And there we also had to overcome an enormous test, which was not to be beaten in the street. And, with Minister Bullrich, it was. prepared the Security Protocol; the Ministry of Human Capital said that he who cuts does not get paid.

In addition, a telephone number was given so that people would not be extorted, a reporting line was set up. The boss arrived: "Hello boss." So, in that context, it was interesting because 3,000 people ended up going to the march. The complaints line exploded and today we have a lot of cases initiated against these people, who extorted the most vulnerable. And among all these things, we learned that - in addition - they had trust funds; They had a lot of things and where various strata of society were involved, several. And then that also explains why there is so much torpedoing.

Because there are not only the managers of poverty, there are businessmen involved and there are other types of people who one would imagine to be more spiritual and not involved in this type of things, and they are all torpedoing because their work has run out. So, that's why what happens happens, but didn't we want to end corruption? Never has so much been done, in six months, as what we are doing and in many longer periods of time. That is to say, we are not only putting the economy in order, not only are we putting security issues in order, but we are also putting an end to corruption and that is why politics is on fire.

But it didn't stop there, because the other thing we had to do was basically clean up the Central Bank. There, a lot of things had to be done. The first thing to do was to open up the exchange market. I remember that, at that time, they told us that we had to set the exchange rate at 600. Again, the release option was not in the plans because with the stock problems we had it was the path to hyper. But beyond that we ask: "how do we fix this then?" The consensus of many economists was: "No, put it at 600." What's more, we made this decision in the place where I was living, for about three months, in the Hotel Libertador, with the “Toto” team, given that we were going to. to put the Country Tax, was that the exchange rate was aligned. Our idea was that the exchange rate was aligned with that of the market, why because in that way we were going to reduce the excess demand, in the Foreign Exchange Market? , and by reducing the excess demand, in the Foreign Exchange Market we were going to reduce the excess supply, in the goods market, in the labor market and, therefore, the adjustment was going to be less painful.

In this context, a devaluation is made, an exchange rate jump and, from there, a devaluation policy is established so that the exchange rate leads to a certain path. In that context, also, they predicted to us all the calamities and catastrophes that were and will be, none of which came true. And, what's more, many of those who said that the exchange rate had to be at 600 and made an inflation path much higher than the one observed are in line with what they say that there is an exchange rate problem that now, obviously, It is a different discussion because of all the noise that politics brought in. But then, can everyone who wants to see the discussion listen to Dr. Arriazu or see my presentations? And yes, but beyond that, in the middle we bought 17.5 billion dollars.

And we continue buying dollars, every day. Not only that, but we also began a process of cleaning up the Central Bank. We inherited a quasi-fiscal deficit of 10 points of GDP; Today it already represents 1 point of GDP. And that was achieved for two reasons: one is because what was sought to be arbitrated was the rate in dollars and not the rate in pesos. So, in that context, having made a devaluation leap, if we followed what many economists said that we had to put the real interest rate positive and that argument, today, we would have a problem, that we would have liabilities remunerated by 8 monetary base. So, we would be talking about the carry trade, when the hyper explodes and all that kind of stuff. So, by setting the interest rate, arbitrated with dollars, but in terms of real pesos negative, that is what was allowed, was to liquefy that position of remunerated liabilities.

And since the fiscal adjustment was also advancing; In fact, in January we already had a financial surplus, that is, not a primary financial surplus. And the zero deficit policy continues, and the May numbers are already known to be very good. And when the first semester ends, and obviously, in June, due to the issue of bonus payments and so on, there is a deficit.
But when they take the 6 months together, there will be a surplus. In other words, because everything we have attached, so far, more than exceeds what we are going to have in June, with which we are going to have - a first semester - with a primary result and a positive financial result, something that they said was impossible. Impossible nothing.

And while we were consolidating the fiscal position, the Secretary of Finance, Pablo Kirno, what was he doing? He was building a peso curve and while he was building the peso curve he began to remove debt that was in the Central Bank, and began to transfer it to the Treasury. So, today, the ratio of paid liabilities to monetary base is 1.2 times, almost a third of the problem we inherited. This is not minor because the remunerated liabilities were future monetary emission, which was a future problem, in inflationary terms. And this is not a minor point because, today, we have a monetary base of 15 trillion and then it means that we have remunerated liabilities of 18 trillion. And now I'm going to give you another excellent news: of those 18 billion, 12 billion are in the hands of the public sector, so all that remains is to clean up, nothing more than 6 billion. In other words, we are there, ending the problem of paid liabilities.

And not only that, of those 12 billion that the public sector has; 7 are in Banco Nación and the holdings, of the Ministry of Economy, in Banco Nación are 3.5 billion. So, you are going to say: and what remains? Well, look, part of it is held by Banco Provincia, it is true, that is not close to our control, in fact, it is in the hands of a political enemy who, in addition, is in charge of filling the media with guidelines to dirty us and to cover up the batons they do. But what is interesting? Since it has so many fiscal problems, it has the bank completely saturated, so it doesn't have many possibilities to do things because it needs to meet the minimum cash position, so it can't do much. Therefore, if you notice, we are ending the problem of paid liabilities. Not only that, but once we're done with this, we're going to go after the puts problem, which we've got on track.

The puts are a nonsense, made by the previous Government, with the endorsement of the International Monetary Fund to finance the deficit in a covert way and that would not violate the goals. And the banks, instead of financing them to the Treasury, preferred to put it within the Central Bank. And we are working to solve that problem. When we solve that problem... bye stocks.
Therefore, it is true that politics gets in the way; that politics gets dirty; that politics, clearly, a large part of the politicians do not want to fix this. When you what the Base Law is, plus the DNU there is - basically - a question of returning freedom to citizens, there is a question of making the markets more pro-competition, not pro-business, but pro-competition, and there is a third element which is to end the jobs. I believe that this third point explains this very strongly, in fact, within the things and privileges that we wanted to end with politics, something that I am going to advance anyway, eh, well, I don't care at all. Yesterday, the degenerate prosecutors, one of the things they did was bragging about being chaste, and that they like to be chaste, and that they believe they are more than the rest of the people, while to approve a law that favors all Argentines, except to the jets, they have her detained and parked there for 6 months.

Yes, they are very quick to raise their salaries, raise their salaries by 80% behind people's backs. While I tell you that - in the Executive - the salaries are the same as when we took office. But not only that, but also, obviously, they are seeking to break the fiscal balance. Look, Bukele when he took office, you know what? He didn't have any deputies, nothing. It had no legislator, nothing. Do you know how he governed? Pure veto. All the things that the degenerate prosecutors did, I vetoed them all, which is what I'm going to do, I'm going to veto everything.
But then, yesterday, a deputy began to defend privileged retirements. Something that, I said, we are going to give up. And, furthermore, since it is an acquired right, it is not that I am going to be touching those who are behind, but, in reality, it is only touching, from me forward. And why is this important? Look, I can stay 4 years or I can stay 8 years, if everything goes well, but you know what? Next, what do I do once I'm done with this? I'm going to have to go out to work. So, it's interesting, because since I have to go out to work again, I have to actively take care of doing things, which are good. Because if not, the day after, I'll lose my job and I'll starve.

Because, imagine, what conferences I'm going to sell the day after, if I was a disaster as president. Therefore, eliminating retirement privileges is a very important incentive to do things right. So, it is not a minor issue. But of course, after 100 years of decline, they believe that doing the wrong thing is normal. And so they do anything, they have total insurance. What insurance? The caste's insurance ran out. If they do wrong, after doing things disastrously wrong, let them starve themselves for being shit.
On the other hand, some say: "no, it has no long-term program." I ask you a question: and what do you think the Base Law and the DNU were? Look, the largest structural reform in Argentine history was carried out by Menem.

The Base Law - as it stands today - is five times larger than Menem's structural reform. If that is not a long-term plan, what are they talking to me about? And, furthermore, there is the DNU. When you take the DNU and the Base Law, there are a thousand structural reforms. How many are there going to be left? 800. Okay, let's move on to 800. You know what? After this, I'm going for the 200, which were pending on this. And, furthermore, I have 3000 more.

And why is this? Look, when you look at the indices of economic freedom, those countries that are freer grow more than twice as much as those that are repressed. GDP per capita is 12 times larger. Not only that, but they also have 25 times less poor in the standard format, 50 times less in the extreme format. What's more, people in the worst decile of the free country live better than 90% of the people of the repressed country. He has several times more income than the same average. Business is freedom. And, for example, with phase 1 of structural reforms it implies a jump in economic freedom, of 90 positions. That is, look like countries like Germany, France, Italy. But nothing, as you will see, is not all the reforms that we are aiming for. In fact, we have always mentioned, as a witness case, of what could be, the case of Ireland, if it is the most miserable country in Europe, today it has a GDP per capita 50% higher than that of the United States, or Countries like Switzerland, or countries like Luxembourg, whichever you want, are among the freest. And the reality is that since we have 3,000 more pending structural reforms, once all this happens, it is not that we are going to become as free as those countries, but that we are going to be the freest country on the planet. Therefore, our goal is to become the most prosperous country on planet Earth.

It seems that, for Argentine politics, it is a business to manufacture poor people and now we saw that what they are dedicated to is exploiting them and doing business. Today I had a talk with a friend, while he was having breakfast and the topic was causality. That is, my hypothesis was that assistance is generated, for whatever reason, because they embrace wrong economic ideas and, from there, they take on a noble cause, which is to provide that assistance, and then they turn it into a bunch of kiosks. So, of course, when you start touching the kiosks, they accuse you of being inhumane, insensitive and all that stuff, when in reality what you are doing is putting an end to the kiosks. So, one would have to ask them if they are in favor of these criminals stealing by taking bread out of people's mouths.

But they always move the arc and obviously the pattern plays a fundamental role, which we have cut because there is truly freedom, how are you going to be financing yourself with a compulsive source of income? It is a contradiction in terms. Well, it seems that... when they look at freedom and all those things, it is as long as it doesn't touch their pockets; Also called the most sensitive organ of the human being. And my friend's hypothesis was a little more bloody, which was, in reality, they come to do business and they invent all those kinds of things to do business. The truth is that politics is so dirty that I don't know which of the hypotheses can truly be true, but the truth is that it is dirty and we are sweeping it away.

And I want to leave one last reflection to - at least - leave good perspectives for the future, and that is what has to do with growth and convergence. Convergence is the process under which a country, which is developing, becomes a developed country. Clearly, we would have to be looking for a way to do that, that is, how to generate a process of sustained growth to reach one of these countries that we admire. And there are some things that I think are important to take into account. One is when one looks at the empirical evidence of growth. You go to any growth book or some advanced macro book and you are going to find some data, which is by Angus Maddison, may he rest in peace, which goes from year zero to the year 2000 of the Christian era and which is called... , looks at GDP per capita, and it's called: "The Hockey Stick." When you look at that, basically what you see is that the GDP per capita was - for 1800 years - practically constant.

In reality, it only had a 40% jump in the 16th century. Therefore, if you were to take the growth rate of GDP per capita in that process it was 0.02%, that is, it took approximately 3500 years to double GDP per capita. However, after the Industrial Revolution, the following two centuries were truly impressive and a situation was generated where GDP per capita almost multiplied by 10, with increasing acceleration. That is, in the 19th century, the growth rate of GDP per capita was 0.66%; the first part of the 20th century it was 1.2% and in the second part it was 2.1%, and, what's more, if you correct for underestimation of national accounts, it may be that the growth was even one point higher, in the second half of the 20th century. That is, what is seen is an acceleration of growth.

And if you also consider the population, given the population that existed around the year 1800, and what there was at the end of the 20th century, to maintain the analysis of that series, more or less the population multiplied by 8 Or by 7, if you want, by eight, but... So when you look at that, that has a flip side in economics called increasing returns. And there is a whole issue there because increasing returns, the other side of that is, if you want it technically it is called convexities, if you want it in friendlier language it is called concentrated structures; The most polar case is that of monopolies. And this is not a minor issue, because according to conventional economic theory, monopolies are bad and must be regulated.

And that is quite conflictive because, how can it be that for the micro that is bad and, in the middle, the extreme population of 95% of the population lived less with one dollar a day and that number, when in the series that we are looking at , had dropped to less than 15%? So how can it be that something that was so good for humanity, microeconomics treats as something bad? That has several problems. Microeconomics has problems, not the series. What happens is that the reasonable thing is that if you, the model does not map with reality, break the model and make another one. Economists, I don't know, something strange got into our heads, since I don't have the data, I don't know, but we have this crazy thing that when reality does not map with the model, we call it market failure.

For those who make serious decisions, they know that this is a serious problem. So, actually, that analysis is wrong. Basically because the only monopoly that is bad is the monopoly that is determined by the force of the State. In fact, the original definition of monopoly is from Lord Cooke, which is the one that Adam Smith took, and which points out that a monopoly is basically a situation in which the monarch, the feudal lord, the prince, whoever you think of , established what could or could not be bought of a certain product. So, someone was being given a monopoly. Obviously, that was against the people and was in favor of the businessman and the monarch. But if there is no violent event it is not a problem. In fact, suppose I have a situation where I have ten companies selling cell phones, and one appears and sells me a cell phone with a lower price and better quality. Obviously the remaining 9 are going to go bankrupt. What does it matter to me? Yes, I now have a better quality product at a better price. Not only that, in fact, many worry about it. There is a very basic book on economics that is very nice, called "Economics in One Lesson", by Henry Hazlitt, he says what the difference is

between the good economist and the bad economist. The thing is that the bad economist only looks at one sector and does not look at the consequences in other sectors, and even less the consequences, in the future. That is to say, the good economist not only looks at that sector, but also looks at the other sectors and not only contemplates the present, but also contemplates the implications for the future. That is, it is the difference between making partial equilibrium, for a single period, and also making general, intertemporal equilibrium. So, when you start removing those spider webs that are in people's heads, things change substantially. Therefore, the first thing to understand is that monopolies are not bad. In fact, I would tell you that monopolies can be wonderful if they are a consequence of one being left behind. And if you don't like that there is only one, don't get angry with the one who is there, get angry with those who aren't there, not with the one who is there. Because whoever is there is solving problems for people. Unless it is arranged by the government, that is another problem, but the problem there is not that there is a single businessman, but the problem is that there is the State.

And why is that important? Because the flip side of increasing returns is what generates economic growth. And when governments start to regulate monopolies, one of the things they do is kill quasi-income. When they kill quasi-income, they kill the incentive for innovation, and when they kill the incentive for innovation, they kill economic growth. And convergence, which, in growth literature, is a mathematical problem, I would tell you, has to do with the shape of the production function. And there is no other explanation than that problem. So there is no explanation as to why it converges, no. You have the model and then you have to do with the curvatures of the curve, and that's how it's going to be. It's all mathematical pyrotechnics, I'm doing quite fancy today. At another time I would say other things, but I am going to try to maintain form, not because of the investiture, but because I have a giant here. So, I'm going to try to behave better.


So, I say, but that's mathematical pyrotechnics. It is interesting, for example, for Musk to see it as a Hayek question or combined with Israel Kirschner, where Hayek sees the market as a discovery process. And that..., Israel Kirschner sees the market as a process that mixes the discovery process, but with Locke's principle of appropriation. Because the truth is that, if you are going to discover something, but you cannot appropriate it, why do you want to discover it? So, that combination makes that discovery process generate economic growth. I mean, why? Because they begin to solve problems. What's more, look, there is one thing... when we had the first meeting with Elon Musk and my sister read it to him right away. Elon Musk, do you know why he is wonderful and why he is doing well and deserves to do well? She told me: "I wake up every day thinking about what problem I can solve for people." It's genius, it's genius because basically if you fix people's problems you will get your products sold. Consequently, if he does it well, he is filled with money. Bravo, that is, a hero, a social benefactor, that is, I believe that politics will have to spend 50 years explaining that man's head and today I am (inaudible), I am optimistic.

Or it would be easier for them to understand it if they were provided with a ticket, but since we are not willing to play in that league, it does not happen. But apart from that, what is interesting about all this? It's just that when you're in a developing country, there are a lot of opportunities that have already been discovered, discovered in other places. Therefore, what one would have to do, what is it?, copy it. And if one copies, it will grow very strong. And with the advancement of information, that copy is faster. So, for example, look, the first country to double GDP per capita was the United Kingdom, in a process that lasted 58 years, starting in 1780. And that meant that GDP per capita grew at 1.2%. The second to achieve this, starting in 1839, which took 47 years, was the United States. That implied a growth rate of 1.5% per capita. The third to achieve this was Japan, in 34 years, starting in 1885, and that implied a per capita growth rate of 2.1%. Another case is that of Italy, which did it in 21 years, starting in 1890, and implied a growth rate of 3.3%. Spain, in 1950, did it in 18 years, with a rate of 4%. South Korea, since 1978, took 9 years, a rate of 7.8%. Or China, which started in 1987, and did so in 7 years, with growth rates of 10%. That is, notice that as we move forward in time, the convergence processes happen faster because the discovery process is valid at the border, but in the transition what we have to do is have good institutions so that we copy and grow, and that is gaining economic freedom. And why I am particularly interested in the case of artificial intelligence, because artificial intelligence is like the new Industrial Revolution. And what was the Industrial Revolution in history? That's why I talked about the hockey stick, it involved a dramatic increase in growth rate. So, what does artificial intelligence generate? It generates an exacerbation of increasing returns, this exacerbation of increasing returns implies acceleration in the growth rate, and the way to achieve this acceleration of growth is not to kill it with economic regulation. What is the area that is growing the least on the planet, despite the fact that it has an artificial intelligence hub? Europe, because it is full of regulations. When you start thinking like macroeconomists and want to make the monopoly look like a competitive company, you are destroying the quasi-rents, you are destroying the extraordinary profits, you are destroying the incentives for innovation, you are killing economic growth.

What is the problem in the other pole, which is the United States? Well, because it is also running and they are afraid and afraid of the issues of artificial intelligence. That is, from time to time, the Luddites always reappear, that is, those who hate the machine and, in reality, the other pole, what is it? China, but we don't know what it does. So, we are offering that Argentina be this fourth pole of artificial intelligence in the world. And because? Because we have large areas of land, a cold climate where all this is very important, the possibility of having a lot of cheap energy, it is very important, for what? so that intelligent algorithms can learn. And that generates a lot of heat, so that's why it's so important to have a cold, extensive area of ​​land and cheap energy. But, in addition, we also have what, human capital.

And if we, then, generate the correct institutions, be it the DNU, be it the Bases. That is, phase 1 of the structural reforms. Or everything that remains pending to make us the freest country on planet Earth, will imply that we will have the conditions so that, in a period of, at most, 40 years, we will once again be the leading world power. Thank you so much.
