Speech by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Llao Llao Forum

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50448-discurso-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-en-foro-llao-llao

Friday April 19, 2024

Speech by the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, at the Llao Llao Forum

Good morning. So much applause makes me doubt the aforementioned type 2 error. Well, the talk I am going to give today is about inheritance, what we did and most importantly: how we see it in the future and what are the possibilities that exist in this perspective. The first thing to understand is the disaster we received, or more or less so that you have an idea. When an economy has twin deficits of four points of GDP, that is a yellow alert; Eight is a red alert and they are going to have a hell of a time. Well, we inherited 17 points of GDP from twin deficits. So you will get an idea of ​​the size of the challenge we had. These twin deficits had a consolidated fiscal deficit of 15 points of GDP, where five corresponded to the national treasury and 10 to the Central Bank, where as if that were not enough the position of the Leliqs, which could be 30, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180 days had all been converted to one-day passes. This means that at the time we assumed the monetary base could have quadrupled in one day. I say to have orders of magnitudes of the difficulties we encountered. At the same time, in terms of price dynamics, since there is a controlled exchange rate with such a large gap, the flip side is that there is what is technically called money overhang. The magnitude of the monetary surplus at that time was basically similar to what we had before the rodrigazo of 1975, which implied at that time when the country ran out of reserves and had to forcefully devalue, six-fold the inflation rate, In fact, it went from 30 to 180 percent. We had had a similar experience in 1959, also of similar magnitude and it had also involved a six-fold increase in the inflation rate: at that time it went from 20 to 120. Therefore, if we had inflation that was basically traveling at 200% , that implied that the inflation rate would reach levels of 1200%; Furthermore, if we consider that we could be tripling the base, let's say increasing the base three times, that would imply taking inflation to 3,600 percent annually. And if, on the other hand, we consider that the previous government issued 13 points of GDP directly and indirectly with a base that today is 2.6, it meant multiplying by 5. That is, we put in four times four times more monetary base; That is, we would be talking about an inflation rate in the order of 15,000 percent.

This seems exaggerated, doing the math from the monetary side, the reality is that during the first week of December prices were already traveling at 1% daily; That's annualized 3,700 percent annually. When you consider how it happened in the first two weeks of December, the acceleration was so great that prices were already traveling at 7,500 percent annually. And this seems like an exaggeration and in fact many accuse us of having been exaggerated, when you take the case of wholesale inflation in the month of December it was 54%. That in annualized terms gives 17,000. That is to say, we were effectively walking the path to hyperinflation; In other words, the only thing that hyperinflation required to materialize was monetary validation.

There is a very funny anecdote in a wonderful book called The Central Bank Theory and Practice, by an economist called Alan Blinder, who was one of the first academics to reach the monetary policy committee of the Federal Reserve, who also taught classes. in Princeton with Bernanke, and he tells something that is very interesting: suppose we have the perfect central banker, then the perfect central banker, suppose he controlled the interest rate - I say it is not the instrument that I like but the book is done with that example - and then this central banker is so brilliant that not only does he know how much to move the rate, but he also gets the lags right. So when he sees that the inflation rate is about to accelerate, he begins to raise the rate and then he manages to keep inflation at the target; When he sees that the economy is slowing down and the inflation rate is going below, he modifies and leaves inflation at the target again. It is interesting because in the limit this could imply that he moved the interest rate as if it were an electrocardiogram of someone who is well or someone who is running if that were the case and leaves the inflation rate constant. The guy is perfect. Now notice that when the interest rate is rising there are going to be a lot of people who are going to be criticizing you because they say 'where are you seeing inflation and you are going to put us in a recession'; and when it drops, they say 'you are going to be encouraging inflation'. I mean, the guy does a perfect job and what's going to happen to him: they're going to be criticizing him all the time. Welcome to the world of politics.
Fortunately, my work studying the Torah with my dearest Rabbi Axel Wahnish, who we are now fortunate to have as our ambassador to Israel, one of the things he told me was that having left Egypt, every time Moses got up late They criticized him for being lazy; If he got up early they said he was fighting with the woman and if he got up on time it was because he had nothing to do. That is, no matter what they do, they will criticize us the same. That is quite reassuring when starting the administration, because they criticized Moisés so they can tell me everything and I more than well deserve it. But it's good to know because now there are a lot of people who say: 'there was never hyperinflation.' Now I'm going to describe it, but we have an adjustment of 13 points of GDP, the largest in the history of humanity. But hey, it's life.
The other part was the exchange imbalance: the relationship between the parallel and the official was three to one. Therefore, the situation was quite complicated. Here is something interesting, I'm going to get ahead of the part of the criticism that they make of us, 'that we have to raise the exchange rate', all that kind of things. I remember that we were at the Libertador hotel, I was with the Toto team and the market consensus was that we had to take the exchange rate to 600. In fact, I wanted to take it to a level that, adjusted for country risk, would remain the same. than the parallel. This has a technical justification to try to eliminate excess demand. And that the impact on activity is as little as possible. It makes me laugh because those same people who complain that the exchange rate is now behind, said that it had to be 600 and the inflation hypothesis they had is much higher than what we are experiencing. The model doesn't close for you, guys. What I'm saying is: be careful with those economists, because the model doesn't work for them. They told me that the exchange rate had to be 600, that we were crazy to set it at 800 and the inflation hypothesis they had was higher than what we are having in reality. I'm saying the model doesn't close for you, I'm just mentioning it.

Then we had a minor problem called net international reserves, we were down 11.5 billion dollars. We had another little problem that was also not whitened, that we all knew existed, which was called Sira, which in reality was 60 billion dollars, but when we asked for it to be whitened and for them to come closer, evidently there was a part that knew it was doing things not lawful And 45,000 million were laundered. Another problem we had is that we had maturities in foreign currency for 25,000 million dollars, concentrated mainly in multilaterals and we had the agreement with the Monetary Fund fallen, therefore, we had a huge problem, let's say with those 25 billion dollars. And the truth is that as if all this were not enough, we had maturities in pesos for the equivalent of 90,000 million dollars. So, if you consider the imbalance we had on a monetary level that was worse than the previous Rodrigazo; a financial situation of the Central Bank much worse than the one we had before the hyperinflation of 1989; and that we also had worse social indicators than those we had in 2001, we were truly facing the mother of all evils because we had all the worst crises together. Is this something to cry about? Look, not really; because the only way in which there could be a liberal libertarian government in a country that has had 100 years of socialism was in the middle of a disaster. The only way this could happen was this, it was a three-way carom and the forces of heaven allowed it.
And as if all this were not enough, in reality economic activity had been falling and rebounded. That's the cap. What's more, I even have a Hebrew version of it. That's funny where that came from. I'm going to tell you because it's fun, so you can see how dynamic politics is. When we and Victoria took office as Deputies in December 21, a journalist from Diputados TV, who I knew from America, a real rude person, told me: 'but you are two deputies, what can two deputies do in 257, they are not going to be able to do anything'. And I answered him with the first book of Maccabees 3:19 which says 'victory in war does not depend on the number of soldiers but on the forces that come from heaven.' Maradona would have a phrase for that.

Naturally, in the face of this disaster that we were facing, we undoubtedly had to have a very tough and concrete stabilization program. This is funny because they kept saying during the campaign that we had no plan, that we had no economic program, that we had nothing, they told us a lot of things. But in reality the only ones who said it was what had to be done were us. In fact, I had even published a book called 'The End of Inflation', where if you read it you will find that everything is told there. And I didn't say I was going to do it, plus I'm doing it. That's even more fun.

So the first question was shock or gradualism. The truth is that when you review Argentine history, all the shock programs, except that of '59, not only managed to lower inflation, but were also expansive. And furthermore, all the gradualist programs ended badly. The other thing was to do gradualism you have to have time. Do you think I had time if I had the possibility of tripling the monetary base in one day... sorry, quadrupling the monetary base in one day? No, there was no time. But as if all this were not enough, if you want to do gradualism, it also requires that you have financing. And Argentina did not have financing, if the agreement with the International Monetary Fund had fallen. In that sense, the truth is that there was no other alternative than shock. Furthermore, I consider that the only way out is shock. That also has an explanation. So based on this we implemented a very, very tough stabilization program. I say regardless of the amount of things that many economists say 'no, this is a transition, then the program is missing'. Look: if wholesale December inflation was 54%, it has been falling every month, the previous month was 10 and the last one was 5; If the wholesale inflation that was at levels of 45, we were able to nail it at 25 and then it was 20, 13, 10 and now we are on our way to single digits, in terms of core insurance. They should be more respectful, clearly there is a stabilization plan to lower the inflation rate. That they don't see it is not my fault. A stabilization program essentially has three elements: it has a fiscal policy, we have even given a name to that fiscal policy, it is called chainsaw and blender, that is, it has a chainsaw and it has a blender. What's more, many of us who criticize us about the quality of the adjustment find it funny because they said that making an adjustment of more than one point of GDP was impossible. And we aimed to have zero deficit in 2024. And we did it with such conviction that obviously it had a blender and it had a chainsaw. And then we believed that we were going to be able to achieve it in the first quarter and we achieved it in the first month, that is, January we had zero financial deficit. In fact, they criticized us and said that in February the primary deficit was even exploding. Again zero deficit. And I am going to let you know that on the 22nd we will be doing a national network, where we will also be announcing the fiscal numbers and I will let you know that the first quarter of the year ended with a positive financial result. So, to all those analysts who say that the deficit is going to explode and all that, I dedicate the applause that you just had or again for Maradona's phrase.

The other element is the issue of monetary policy. Basically the Central Bank is bankrupt. So, the question is how the bankruptcy of the Central Bank is resolved. This is the key. The bankruptcy of a Central Bank is resolved by liquefying its liabilities; In other words, with the size of the Argentine problem, it implied a stratospheric price level until the liabilities were so liquefied that the net worth was at least zero. Are we going there? If this is so, it means that given that price level to resolve the consolidation of the Central Bank is in the stratosphere, given today's prices, the line that joins these two price levels gives the implicit inflation rate. Therefore, it was essential to clean up the Central Bank, for what? For that stratospheric price level that left the Central Bank's assets null and void to go down and to the extent that that price level goes down, therefore, the expected inflation rate has to go down. Naturally there we also started with a process of cleaning up the Central Bank. There we also found some criticism, I even have the WhatsApp and I have the reports from the consultants, saying that the real interest rate had to be brought to positive territory. If we had done that, instead of having decompressed the Central Bank's balance sheet as we have done until now, I tell you that so far this year we would have already put four more monetary bases into remunerated instruments. So now we would be discussing what? No, this is unsustainable, we would be talking about the Leliqs ball or the pass ball, or I don't know what, a snowball that was going to ruin us in hyperinflation. Now they are all hidden, no one says anything. That is, they must be afraid of Maradona's phrase. But, in other words, the important thing is that the other side of that fiscal deficit of 10 points of GDP has already reached four. That is to say, not only that we have made a fiscal adjustment of seven points of GDP in the treasury, which is why we have now begun to relax items, and so now there is starting to be more of a chainsaw and much less of a blender; I mean, for those who are so concerned about the quality of the fit, as if it weren't that a permanent blender is a chainsaw, right? But hey, that's another detail. The important thing is that we have made successive interest rate cuts, and what did everyone expect every time we lowered the rate? That the exchange rate would rise and that we would lose reserves. Well, we have accumulated more than 12 billion dollars of reserves, we left the field of negative net reserves and in the middle we paid for a lot of things. Therefore, what we did in monetary and exchange matters is also a success. Now the discussion is 'no, well, but the rate in dollars is enormous'. And then if I had put it in real positive terms it would have been even bigger.So they should more or less agree on what they mean by the interest rate, because we were always clear that it was an arbitration problem with the dollar rate. That is, not looking like a caveman at the real interest rate in a closed economy.

And obviously what we did in the exchange rate adjustment. If you remember when we were in the campaign they said that with us the exchange rate was going to be 6,000 in 10,000. It seems to me that they saved him by a little. So what do we have in terms of results? Not only have we achieved zero deficit, but we have gone a little overboard: instead of making a five-point GDP adjustment, we made one of seven. You can see that in a work that Nadin Argañaraz did, which in fact circulated on Twitter, and we also lowered the quasi-fiscal rate by six points. In other words, we made an adjustment of 13 points of GDP, that is, we just made the largest fiscal adjustment in the history of humanity, because on top of that we did it in three months. This is important, but that is precisely what made it possible to avoid hyperinflation. Furthermore, one of the characteristics of the zero deficit issue that is very important is the following: when you have a zero financial deficit it means that the debt does not increase; If the debt does not rise, the debt/product ratio does not rise, therefore, you are on a sustainable path. That is, you become solvent; and if you become solvent the price of the bonds has to rise and in fact from 18 dollars that they were when we took office, today they are close to 60 and the country risk that was at 2900, today is at 1200. And if we manage to lower 200 basis points plus the country risk we can now enter the debt markets. This adjustment was so strong and the way we did it was so positive, that also when we went to negotiate it with the Fund, while all the analysts said that our program was inconsistent and that a review of the fund with fallen programs like the Argentine case demands as three months, we reached the agreement in a weekend. You can imagine what the phrase is.

And, obviously, this is translating into a drop in the inflation rate, because as I told you, wholesale inflation, which is what is anticipated, was at 54%, that is, the equivalent of 17,000 percent annually and today it is at 5 What's more, the International Monetary Fund itself, which had inflation expectations for this year for Argentina at around 250% annually, lowered it to 150. Lowering it to 150 means that, from now on, it is expecting inflation to be on average. of five and a half. But since the process is not linear, it means that we are going to a low single digit by December. That is to say that we are achieving it. Naturally there are plenty of criticisms; What happens is that criticism seems to me to have to be made by understanding the model that one has in one's head. For example, I don't know when they say 'comprehensive program', then they say 'sectoral policies' within the program within the program. Look, I'm not Leontief, I'm not going to give you the five-year plan. I do not believe in that. I do not believe in a dirigiste economy. I am a libertarian liberal, I am going to take care of fixing the macro, you have to fix the micro, what should I be doing with the micro? Enough with the stupidity that we have been doing for 100 years, that we make any macro disaster and then the politicians come choosing the winners. Which is also a source of enormous corruption. So what is a liberal's rule in this? Don't pick the winners. I am going to be in charge of stabilizing the economy, of lowering inflation, of generating the conditions for the economy to grow again; The rest is all up to you. That is, the one who explains this best is Claudio Zuchovicki, who has a fabulous example: Is Milei going to deal with inflation? Yes. Are you going to address the fiscal deficit? Yes. Are you going to deal with the exchange issue? Yes. Are you going to clean up the Central Bank's balance sheet? Yes. Are you going to take over your pizza business? No. You have two pizzerias, one is doing well, another is doing poorly. It has the same international context, it has the same macro: I am not going to take care of the pizzeria, that is a micro problem, that you have to solve. What should I be doing getting into each of your business? You can't be so fatally arrogant.

The other is income policy, but what is income policy? Touching the price of this thing, the price of that other, the interest rate, salaries... Hey, hello, I'm a libertarian liberal, I believe in the price system. I understand that I may have a temporary problem, because I am experiencing a hypersocialist economy, I have been socialist for 100 years and so we are doing a pro-market reform. There are a lot of initial imbalances, plus the additional problem that we have to avoid a hyper, so we are correcting relative prices in a context of high inflation and with some base problems and with some problems of violating private property before, so it may be that at some point there will be some corrections via antitrust. Everyone will understand what I'm talking about. But except for specific things like that that are typical of the transition, those things will never exist again. But first you have to stabilize the economy and make respect for private property clear. And not that someone using State resources takes positions and generates a dominant position based on the state's fraud and then generates political movements that affect an age segment where there is a large proportion of voters. Welcome to the world of politics, that's the garbage I'm describing to you.

We already talked about the issue of the interest rate. We also talked about the issue of sustainability of adjustment, there is more and more of the chainsaw, less of the blender. The best example is what we are doing in terms of retirements: if we had left things as they were, retirees would have lost two points of GDP, with what we are doing they will only lose half a point. That is, we are returning one and a half points. And naturally the discussion of the exchange rate. The exchange rate discussion is quite ridiculous: 'no, because we have to raise the exchange rate' Why? If there is no gap today, why do I have to be touching the exchange rate? Why don't I like the market exchange rate? The first thing you have to understand is that this analysis of the real exchange rate - I'm going to say it in Latin, Professor De Pablo would say - is nonsense. Because they grab and take a series of the real exchange rate. The question is what is the reference year? Someone explain to me why you take the specific reference year on which you calculate the average. Let him explain that. No, they don't explain that. Not only that, when you look there are moments where the real exchange rate is very depreciated and there are moments where it is highly appreciated. So, let's say, something that has that level of volatility, averaging it would tell you it's another house-sized piece of nonsense. But as if all that were not enough, the moment you don't know how to calculate an average and at some point the exchange rate is going to happen there, take that year. Could you say that in that year you can replicate the supply and demand conditions of all past, present and future goods that affected the determination of that set of relative prices in Argentina and in the world, all simultaneously and as if In the middle, not even the composition of the supply of goods would have changed? Do you realize how absurd it is to do that? As Pablo's teacher says: that is doing arithmetic, that is not economics. So when they come, they talk to you about the real exchange rate, this, that other. Do you realize the arrogance that implies? Because it implies knowing the vector of relative prices, but not only now in Argentina but also around the world. And then you should know the preferences, technology and endowments, not only present but future, not only in Argentina but also in the entire world. Do you realize? And in order to take a political action and for that to work, you would have to be omniscient, omnipresent and omnipotent: that is, you would have to be God. Why the hell do you think Hayek put Fatal Arrogance in that book? Because it's a little pretentious, right? Well, whoever raises his hand like that believes that he is in that condition. One of these days he's going to tell her, bring me a coffee. But hey, you know who I'm talking about, things happen.

So, this is everything that has to do with the stabilization part. Now obviously it's not all stabilization, at some point we have to start growing. To start growing there, structural reforms come to play an important role. But there is one very important thing: understanding the nature of structural reforms. Toto explained this in a masterful way when he made the first speech about the characteristics of the program. In that speech he explained it perfectly and if you look at the entire regulatory framework and restrictions and all the rubbish that we have and the legal framework, they are consequences of focusing on the effects and not on the causes. That is to say, the cause of the problem is always the same: you take the last 123 years of Argentine history, Argentina had a fiscal deficit for 113. Argentina from 1901 until today had 22 crises, 20 of them have a fiscal origin. They have either high or extravagantly high fiscal deficits. Therefore, the central problem is the fiscal deficit. So, for example, you have a fiscal deficit, you finance it with monetary emission. So what happens at some point deteriorates... that is, all of that has the exchange rate, so they try to anchor it with the exchange rate. When you do that, what happens to you: you lose reserves. Then the criminal exchange law appears so that you cannot buy dollars. Instead of fixing the cause, which is the fiscal deficit, since the politicians do not want to touch theirs, yesterday it was very clear that theirs is not touched, Macri would say: 'mine is there', yesterday was a clear example, 'mine is'... luckily, Argentines are reacting. So, in that context you find yourself with that situation. Or, for example, they finance the deficit with the monetary issue, they generate debt, sorry, monetary issue, then there begins to be inflation. What do they do? Price controls, for example the gondola law. Now what happens when you control prices? Shortages appear. So how does politics respond? With the shortage law. That is to say, their dollars are gone, so they put capital controls in place and then whoever escapes is a criminal. He is a hero, he who escapes is a hero, he managed to escape from the clutches of the state. You laugh, but that's how I see it. What would you recommend to your client? I put on the economist's suit: he buys dollars. That later appears as a leak. And the truth is that, if you buy it in black, the better, because then you don't have to pay a lot of stupid taxes, all to finance those who raise their hands and those who do it like a queruza, to finance those useless people. The phrase says that a thief who steals another thief has 100 years of forgiveness; I say with what the Argentine politicians have stolen we have gained eternity.

The reality is that when you look at our economic program, which has the fiscal leg, the monetary leg and the exchange leg, where there is a nominal anchor, it is not that there is no nominal anchor. That's another stupid thing they said: 'no, there is no nominal anchor here.' Look, since we arrived, the monetary base has practically not changed and we bought, we issued a lot to buy the 12 billion dollars, they had left us a little gift called puts in the Central Bank that triggers endogenous emission for us, there were the remunerated liabilities. And what do we compensate with? We compensate with BOPREAL and we compensate with tax results. And that means that the monetary base does not change. Today we have zero net international reserves and we have the same monetary base. That's the anchor, the anchor is the amount of money. What's more, if you notice, the Fund is always accused of being very aggressive, with the issue of the speed at which inflation can be lowered, they recognized that we are lowering it faster. What's more, I find some criticisms between the exchange rate and inflation quite funny, because during the convertibility that took 20 months for the inflation rate to stabilize until it became a serious country in terms of inflation, with the fixed exchange rate, today the Inflation rate falls much faster than during convertibility. And that has an explanation, because during convertibility you had endogenous money. Endogenous money associated with the increase in the demand for money. When you wanted to demand pesos, you delivered dollars and the Central Bank gave you pesos. So the increase in the demand for money had as a counterpart what? An increase in the money supply. And that means that then you left the money market in balance all the time and the only thing that remained was the readjustment of relative prices due to the two previous hyperinflationary quilombos, the Alfonsín hyper and the Menem hyper. So when all those relative price problems were finished being corrected, inflation disappeared, because you kept the money market in balance. We also maintain the balance of the money market, but without issuing, so all the increases in demand for pesos go against what? Against a fall in the goods market, therefore, the level at which the inflation rate falls is much faster: there is the explanation, it was not that difficult. The only thing is to put your head a little bit.

To confront this, we sent the most ambitious reform program in Argentine history. We mandated a thousand reforms in two instruments: one third in the DNU, two thirds in the Base Law. The DNU is still standing. But what is the characteristic of these instruments? It has three elements: the first is that unlike all the DNU that existed in Argentina, where they all advanced on individual freedoms, on private property, this is the first time that it returns freedoms, that is, it returns freedom to citizens, it does A furious respect for private property promotes more competitive market structures. That does have a huge defect, both the DNU and the Base Law, a tremendous defect: it goes against the work of politicians. What they did was clearly seen when they turned it over in the Senate chamber. Obviously, what are the biggest standard-bearers of the jobs going to say? 'No, the decree is unconstitutional.' Fortunately, the Court, after some things, now seems to have gotten back on track, reoriented itself and now ruled in two cases in favor of the DNU. It's not enough yet, but it's a good start. As for the Base Law, it also has the same concepts, but they were things that could not be issued by decree, but rather had to go through Congress due to the type of things it involved. So when we sat down with the governors at Casa Rosada, one of the things I proposed to the governors was to fix the fiscal problem they had. And that was in chapter 4 of the Base Law. Now what is happening? The governors, instead of understanding this as an act of good will, understood it as a sign of weakness. Faced with that case, they began to make a disaster in fiscal matters. So what happened? We removed chapter 4 of the Base Law. How did you read the red circle that is becoming more analogous every day? 'This is a defeat for Milei.' Toto came out and explained: 'Well, if you don't want to leave Chapter 4 as it was and make a fiscal disaster like the one you're making so that we're stuck six months from now, we'll lift Chapter 4. But if we lift the Chapter 4, you are going to end up making a bigger fiscal adjustment than you are willing to make. Now the Bases Law is back, guess what it has. The same chapter 4. Who won? Be careful with these guys, who are very analogical, who seem to not fully understand how politics works.

Not only that, but also after the rest of the Base Law passed, it was approved. And then they started to dismantle it. How interesting because the trust funds were over 20 years old, they only found out now that they existed. We had all the champions of republicanism, anti-corruption and everything, but nothing ever happened with that, it was discovered now. Like all the things that we are discovering all the time from the Ministry of Human Capital, where, for example, we have found that half of those who received funds from the soup kitchens did not exist, they were ghost soup kitchens; or dining rooms that said they received 500 people, in reality they received 50; or those who asked for the bags of food and who did not want the DNI of what they received those bags to be recorded; Or not only that but also when you received the bags they quoted an extra Premium quality and when you put the noodles in they fell apart when you threw them into the water. Look at all the things we found. Or the pochoclero who called me 'Holy Week, it falls between March and April'. Of course, because I was hoping that between March and April the woman's overalls case might come into play. Interesting everything we are finding And how the most vulnerable are abused for this. What's more, look at one of the great triumphs we had, the first thing we received was criticism. I remember that everyone has been kicking against the issue of poverty managers. One of the wonderful things that Minister Pettovello did, we were aware that the most complicated part was going to be between the first part of the year when the fiscal adjustment was fully operating, because we were going to be generating savings without a counterpart investment and that It was going to bring down economic activity, employment, real salaries and there will be more poor and more destitute, because being honest about the economy is not free; 20 years of populism is not free. At the end of the Menem government the average salary was 1800 dollars, you adjust it to today it is 3000 dollars; When we took over it was at 300, that is, 90% of the income in dollars had been lost. It's not that the rates are expensive and all that stuff: the problem is that we are so miserable, so poor that we can't even pay the subsidized ones. The problem is not a problem of how much the rate is, the problem is how the populists destroyed our income. They spent their time displaying Keynesianism, you have to consume, you have to consume. Of course, you have to consume means you save less; If they save less, they invest less; If you invest less, the per capita capital stock does not increase, productivity does not increase, salaries do not increase... Welcome: we are poor. So it's not free, it's not free. Twenty-something years of populism is not free.

There they began to destroy the Base Law and, well, we lowered it. How did the analogues of the red circle understand it? 'Another defeat for Milei'. And they still do not understand the principle of revelation, they were all exposed. That is to say, if I am a standard-bearer, salaries should not be touched, for example, we have frozen salaries since January by order of me. Is what happened yesterday a defeat for Milei? It is a barbaric triumph, we are going to destroy them in 2025. People are taking the cover off these criminals, who only care about being in politics to work. It's great, it's a wonderful moment of revelation that we are experiencing: all the shit is coming to light, all the political crap is coming to light, that is, we are exposing everyone, in 2025 we are going to expose them all. smash directly. And there I enter the last part of what this presentation is going to be. The reforms that we proposed in DNU plus Bases meant that in terms of economic freedom we jumped 90 positions. That is, we would become like Germany. In 20 years we were going to look like Germany, but since politics does not want to stop stealing, it attacks the DNU, it attacks the Bases Law, it takes pieces of it, for what? So that they don't touch your businesses. I have news for you: the reforms that we cannot carry out now, we are going to carry out as of December 11, 2025. And in addition to those I have 3,000 more. I'm not going to make Argentina look like Germany, because Germany has a GDP per capita of $50,000; I don't want to go for small things, I want to look like Ireland. “I want to go for a GDP per capita that is 50% larger than that of the United States: that is the revolution we are proposing, a true revolution of freedom.”
“And, in that sense there are some things that are interesting, because it is true that in the midst of the adjustment that we are making, 75% of Argentines understand that we are worse, they clearly understand that we are worse. But what is the most wonderful thing? That when we took office, only 20% of Argentines believed that in a year we would be better; that climbed to 30 in January; In March, let's say it was already at 40 and today we are at 50. Today, half of Argentines already perceive that a year from now we are going to be much better. And that is not minor. Furthermore, 70% of Argentines are convinced that we are going to exterminate inflation, there are only 50 points that believe that we are going to do it in one year and let's say 20 points that consider that we are going to do it in two. What's more, if the runoff were held today, despite the fact that some may not like it, today we would win it by more difference: we would win it 58 to 42, we would win it by 16. But not only that, because when you go to that vote of 58, What is more interesting, 48 points would be in the first round. We would win in the first round because the person who has the most intention to vote after us is Cristina Fernández de Kirchner with 20. And it is not true that of those 10 incremental points between the first round and the runoff we get zero, therefore, we would be above the 50 points. What does this mean? That without a doubt, starting December 11, we are going to carry out all the reforms that remain pending, plus the 3,000 that we have in the pipeline, plus all the others that we are designing and that we are also going to apply. We are going to make Argentina a truly liberal Argentina that is a power and that is great again in 35 years.

And finally the question is how. The theme that only if I tell you we increase in economic freedom will it happen seems almost fundamentalist. They may have a lot of esteem for me, but believing me so much would even be dangerous. So the point is what the whole process is like. The first part is rebound, the first part is rebound. In fact, notice that more and more analysts are seeing a V. That V had already appeared an indicator that seemed strange, that by February the seasonally adjusted Orlando Ferreres had tested positive. But clearly the seasonally adjusted indicator has a lot of instability at the top. So you have to take that very carefully. Not only that, now the leading index, let's say Di Tella, which anticipates the evolution of activity, came out positive. When you look at mining it comes up; when they look at oil and gas it comes up; When they look at the field they come up. That is, we have more and more signs that this is bouncing and lifting. Not only that, but you also have some additional issues and that is that where the strongest falls were noted, the cut is occurring in a violent V shape. Examples CAME, sales... hit a strong rebound. Not only that, but the brutal drop in country risk, when you look empirically every time the country risk plummets, activity rebounds strongly. But not only that, there is also another fundamental element and that is even if we did not carry out any of the structural reforms, the decapitalization of the economy is due to a whole set of negative structural reforms that made one eat up capital. The Argentine economy is very undercapitalized. Why is it undercapitalized? So that the value of the marginal product of capital - I mean the firm's IRR - is above the UAC, so that value is not destroyed. So in that context what you have is that, changing the rules of the game, what happens now? The rate is misaligned with the opportunity cost of capital. Why do you think stocks are flying? Precisely for that reason, because they are seeing it outside. So in that 20 years of destroying capital, enormous productivity, enormous real returns against collapsing interest rates, you have a chance to make money like crazy, even without structural reforms; That is to say, without making reforms we can grow for an interesting period of time, not at the rates that I would like, but we can rebound strongly now and grow strongly at the start. So we are going to reach 2025 with very strong expansion rates composed of rebound and growth due to decapitalization and falling inflation rate. Get ready because we are going to destroy you. And there we will have the composition of the chambers that we need to make the reforms that Argentina needs to become great again. But that is not all. If you notice when all this ends,The fiscal adjustment will be the consolidated 15 points of GDP, that is, there will be 15 points of GDP that the government took to finance parasitic activities and that now that savings will be transformed into productive investment. And that is going to give the economy at least between 4 and 5 points of additional growth. So we are preparing to generate a true... I wouldn't say economic miracle, because the only thing we are doing is what the books say to do. But our heads are so deformed after 100 years of brainwashing in public education, whether state-run or privately run, we have so much socialism in our blood that when you see it like that it seems like a miracle. In reality, all we are doing is applying the manual.

Therefore, the growth prospects for the future are wonderful. Because even though we do not have all the majorities to make all the reforms we want, only for a large part of the reforms, when they begin to see the liberal-libertarian wave that is coming, they will accommodate. And that will allow the reforms to go much easier than one sees now. But this is only part of the story. What I just told you is the entire macro configuration that makes Argentina an excellent business case. I'm going to put it in these terms: if I buy long-term assets in Argentina with falling interest rates, I'll earn a lot, yes or no? Imagine if they are also real, with which they did not adjust, with which they have to earn a lot, with which there is an opportunity to enter into infrastructure business and a lot of things to earn a lot of money. Not only that, it is also important that you are aware that our lines of economic analysis have three blocks: there is a first block which is the situation. You are going to find Toto there, you are going to find Pablo Quirno, you are going to find Santiago Bausili: they are the ones who deal with the macro, with the situation. Then there is the second line of analysis - this is not a question of order, it is a question of exposition - which is the issue of regulatory reforms, structural reforms, the freedom agenda: you have two colossi there, you have Federico Sturzenegger and Dr. Rodríguez Chirillo, who are the ones who designed the structural reforms to free us from all this socialist misery that we have been burdened with for 100 years. And then there is the third group, which I have the privilege of having here the dearest Demian Reidel, who is the one in charge of thinking about the economy of the future. And where with the advice he develops, analyze and study policies so that Argentina becomes a vanguard country, a first world country, where we are at the forefront of technological progress. We are doing, we are leaving everything. But now I want to close with something very important so that you are clear that I can leave everything ready for you, but that the final decision is yours. Those who have the power to transform Argentina are you, it is not a politician. The only thing I have to do is pave the way for you, make your life easier; but the true creators of wealth are you, those who are going to change the future of the country are you, those who are going to make Argentina better are you, those who are going to put us on our feet are you, you are the businessmen, the entrepreneurs, not the politicians. Politicians do not create value, they destroy it and what I am doing is giving them back their freedom. I told you in the elections: what do the rest of the politicians ask of you? The vote to give them the power to transform their lives. And I told them:I ask for your vote so that I can return your freedom and that you be the true architects of your future. So you have to take charge of being the heroes of this story. I am going to pave the way for you; To the extent that Argentina begins to grow, I am going to put a foot on public spending, such that it liquefies it in terms of GDP and begin to return the money from taxes. That is to say, from now on to the future there will also be a lot of tax cuts and it will also generate virtuous feedback. So I'm going to tell you so you have an idea of ​​this. Today is a very special day, today is the rebbe's birthday and we are also entering Pesach: where the departure from Egypt is remembered. But this is very interesting, because after the 10 plagues that fall on Egypt and everything that happened, Moses takes the people to the Red Sea and they ask him to open it. Moses hits the staff and is told 'open it'. And he tells them 'to go away'. 'No, no, let him open it and we'll go in.' And he tells them 'you don't have to have faith, you have to send yourself, you have to enter and cross'. And the water did not open and on the other side there were the Egyptians, that is, slavery, who came to take them away. And there when the crown prince launches himself and believes and trusts, the waters open and there the final liberation occurs. . What does that mean? Guys, at some point you are going to have to step up, you are going to have to invest, you are going to have to play so that the waters open and we are free. Long live fucking freedom!Long live fucking freedom!Long live fucking freedom!


