Speech by President Javier Milei at the closing of the IAEF Congress

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50501-discurso-del-presidente-javier-milei-en-el-cierre-del-congreso-del-iaef

Tuesday May 21, 2024

Speech by President Javier Milei at the closing of the IAEF Congress

Good afternoon. Thanks to everyone here present. Thank you IAEF for the invitation and above all for allowing me to keep my word, that if I were president, I would return. So in that sense, thank you all. Basically the talk I have prepared is what our model towards dollarization is, which the name basically technically would be endogenous dollarization. In this sense, the talk is going to have three parts: the first part has to do with the nature of money, because it seems that some economists essentially forgot where money appeared, how money appeared, what the functions of money are, because this has very strong characteristics and implications in terms of how one thinks about the existence of money and its incorporation into the economy. Once I have closed that conceptual question, the second part of the talk has to do with the inclusion of money within a general equilibrium model, how an economy works with this and there I am also going to stop at something that is It is assumed that economists should know and they do not know - and I know - what the problem of the nominal anchor is. That way I'm going to discuss different ways on how to anchor the price level. And finally, I'm going to be addressing our concept of endogenous dollarization. That obviously, to explain the issue of endogenous dollarization, what has to do with the times, the steps and so on, has to do with the enormous task being carried out by Toto Caputo, Pablo Quirno, Santiago Bausili and all their team, which is a true luxury and an honor to be able to have such professionals working with me to move this country forward.

In that sense, if there was no money, we would be in what is called a barter economy. Now, in the barter economy you derive demand functions, but there is something that is very important because this has to do with the intellectual contamination that Keynesianism generated, because, basically, Keynes, who was not an economist and who had only taken a 6 month economics course with Alfred Marshall, I did not understand the difference between general equilibrium and partial equilibrium models. Basically, when you take a micro course, in the first micro course you take and when you start the first part of a micro course in general - the newest books are a little different, the texts - but basically it starts with the theory of the consumer and from there the demand curves are derived. In general, these demand curves will depend on all prices and income. But that is in partial equilibrium, that is not in general equilibrium; Extending

that idea of ​​putting income in the demand function in a general equilibrium model is a gross conceptual error. That is, when you are thinking about a general equilibrium model, you have to incorporate the fact that your income is going to depend in a barter economy, it is going to depend on how you sell and exchange your endowments, or in an economy that incorporates production the possibility for you to work, that is, to sell your leisure in the labor market and in exchange receive a salary. What is happening? By simply contemplating all the prices in the economy, in the derivation of the system of quantities you are going to determine how much you are going to receive for selling your endowments, how much you are going to receive for selling leisure in the labor market and when you are going to receive benefits based on the stakes you have in the firms.
Therefore, these demand functions will only consider prices. And the same goes for offer functions. Therefore, the excess demand functions of a general equilibrium model have two characteristics: first, no quantity indicator appears, income never appears, never never appears. And, furthermore, these functions are homogeneous of degree zero. That is, they depend on relative prices. And that also has a mathematical counterpart, which is the idea of ​​the aggregate budget restriction, you can look at it that way or as well as the barraque law: if N minus one market are in equilibrium, the rest are. Therefore, the system cannot be determined, the solution, the equilibrium price vector cannot be determined in absolute terms, relative prices are determined. That is the first point. Now, then the first thing to be clear about is that in no way can a model called general equilibrium consider income in the behavioral functions. I mean, that's a technical aberration. So, when an economist comes and tells you that she does general equilibrium and put income into a behavioral equation, you start to distrust.

The second thing, another aberration that Keynes committed, all these things are in a book of mine called 'Unmasking the Keynesian Lie'; The other issue is the interest rate. That is, when you see an economist who tells you that he does intertemporal general equilibrium, well, first look to see if the model is truly intertemporal, because it is probably for a single period. If it is for a single period, the interest rate does not make sense as a criterion. The interest rate exists because time exists, not because there is a Central Bank setting the interest rate. The interest rate has to do with the fact of transferring consumption from the present to the future and vice versa or if

you decide to invest and then transfer production from the present to the future, for example. That is, the interest rate exists regardless of whether money exists; It exists because time exists. And also the interest rate is not anything. In reality, the interest rate is basically the relative price of present goods in terms of future goods. That's the interest rate. That is why in some texts, not in all, when you can determine the interest rate, which is also called the Vixelian interest rate, it is determined by the interaction of savings and investment. Now what is savings? Saving is future consumption. So when the interest rate rises it means that present goods are more expensive than future goods. Therefore, what are you going to replace?: present consumption with future consumption. Therefore, when the interest rate rises, savings increase. At the same time, if the interest rate were to fall, it means that future prices are higher than present ones. In that context, what would a company do? Instead of selling today, sell more tomorrow. What is that called, that step from production from today to tomorrow? That's called investment. And there you have the traditional curves of increasing savings in interest rate, of decreasing investment in interest rate and that interaction determines the interest rate. And the interest rate is an intertemporal coordination mechanism that has nothing to do with the existence of money. Therefore, when you find an economist who grabs and tells you the interest rate and income, be suspicious because he is an ass. First thought on this.

Therefore, when I put together the excess demand functions, if they have all present prices and all goods future prices, that will be a model of general equilibrium and intertemporal characteristics. And basically what you are going to find is the balance, which is when the interest rate is the same for everyone, then the model that is there is matched in present and future terms, and that can be back without money existing, I don't need that there is money Now, money exists for something else, not to determine interest rates. Basically the barter economy has two problems: the first problem it has is that of double coincidence. Suppose I want to buy bread, but there is no baker who wants to buy my economist services. Well maybe you buy my services indirectly by voting for me for president. I don't know which exchange I would have preferred. Aside from that, well yes, if he lived from the State, surely not, it's costing him a lot. So, in that sense what is the problem. I have to find someone, a baker who wants to sell bread to me and in exchange for me to give him economics talks. Which is a little complicated and even more so in a

widespread society. And yet there is a problem that, when I solve the problem of double coincidence, I have another problem, which is that of indivisibility: because perhaps I only need a kilo of bread, that is, I am not going to give an economics talk for a kilo of bread.
So, there appears an indivisibility and what I would give you in a talk for that kilo of bread is of no use to you either, because it comes with that indivisibility.
So, in an economy that these problems appear, many exchanges begin to be lost and the level of well-being falls substantially. From that point on, the man did not start crying or watching the State fix my life; no, no, man created money. What did man discover?: that there were goods that were exchanged much more than others. So what did he do: he began to go looking for those goods, not to consume those goods per se, but basically to exchange them later for the good that he needed. That is, the appearance of money is actually a good of indirect exchange. So, for example, when man was nomadic, the first type of money that appeared was cattle. Because? Because basically people moved with cattle. So, the first type of money that appeared was cattle. When man became sedentary, then other types of products began to appear, for example, people ate a lot of bread, so the indirect exchange good that was most traded in an economy. What was it? The wheat. He did not buy or sell wheat because they wanted wheat per se, but because it was basically the one that was exchanged the most. In other societies linen was used, in others tobacco was used, there were different types of product models that were used as money.
But basically it is an indirect exchange good. This is essential because it is not that you demand it because you want to have it, but rather that you use it to make transactions. This is not a minor issue for the purposes of how one has to think about money. Now what is happening? One of the problems was that, although it could serve as a unit of account and to carry out transactions, you had another problem, which was not a reserve of value. That is, with the passage of time, those assets, which had a negative interest rate, became worth less over time. It's like ice cream: if you don't eat the ice cream in a timely manner, what is the interest rate on the ice cream like? Negative, it's going to melt in your hand.

So, faced with this situation, to correct the problem of the store of value of the store of value, metals began to be used. And there basically two metals prevailed: gold for large transactions and silver for smaller transactions. Now there is a particularly comic book character that I love, which is Zorro. Zorro is a great character because he was a

fabulous anarcho-capitalist, because what was Zorro's plot about?: Zorro had two types of enemies. : obviously to Monasterio and all his soldiers, that is, the
State, who came and took the resources from him in order to take them to Spain... well, just today I mention Spain. Maybe I already have match point for Pedrito. Despite what the progressive media says. That is the first point and the second point was the city, it was near the port and then there were many thieves who attacked. Imagine that you are going to exchange, you carried with you: money, gold.
Nothing is like wearing a label that says “rob me, rob me, rob me.” So, he attacked them, everything and Zorro not only fought with the State thugs, but also fought with who?, with the jets. Because in reality, if the jets won, what was the problem? There was less commerce and, therefore, the quality of life went down, that is, Herrscher Oglin worked perfectly there. That is, Zorro made sure that the Herrscher Oglin worked.

So, in that sense, basically what appeared then, what was it? Certificates on gold and silver that were deposited in institutions, which were later called banks. So they were kept there and then you later fought against those papers, and then the other party went and canceled it; There was a clearing system, until who got in the way? The state. But hey, that's part of another story. So, this is what the appearance of money meant, but we must not forget the fundamental element, that money continues to be a good of indirect exchange, it is a derived demand: it exists as a counterpart to the intertemporal path of consumption that you want to access. , it works for that. That is to say, no one takes pesos or whatever to the wooden suit, no one takes all that to the jonca, it is of no use, the other side does not buy. In other words, he doesn't buy at all.
So, deep down, that's why money exists, but money has that characteristic. That is to say, it is more the inheritance, as Professor De Pablo would say, it is a miscalculation. So, in that sense, now we find ourselves in a general equilibrium model, we have already seen the characteristics of a general equilibrium model, whose excess demand functions are homogeneous of zero degree, there are only the prices, the prices of the goods. present, the prices of future goods, the relationship of relative prices between present and future goods of each type of good has to be mapped so that the entire model is arbitrated in a single interest rate, which is what is called the Vixelian interest rate and which is the one that intertemporally coordinates the economy between the present and the future.
That said, when you incorporate money into that general equilibrium system that with N minus one equation being in balance, the remaining marked one

is also in balance and you could only determine N minus a price; Now by incorporating one more excess demand equation, you can determine one more price. And if you determine that the money is the numeraire, that is, that it has a price of one, you exchange 10 bills of 100 for one of 1000. In other words, there is no... except when it is a problem of a lot of cash turning over, but taking out the anomalies, you change it for a relationship that the number does not matter. That is, the price is one. That is called numeraire and that allows all the prices in the economy to be ordered in terms of nominal scale. That is to say, then you determined the amount of money with the numeraire which is price 1 and, then, all the nominal prices within the system are determined and the system can be solved.

Under those characteristics this is interesting, because if I have the demand for money, then it is a derived demand and it is a demand derived from all the excess demand functions that are in the rest of the system, it has the same characteristics that the functions of the system that I have up there. Therefore, and what does that depend on? It depends on what are called the deep parameters, Robert Lucas Junior would say, may he rest in peace; That is, it depends on preferences, it depends on technology and it depends on resources. That is to say, they are very hard parameters, unless you have some hypothesis by which you are going to determine the technological path, but if you want to determine the model you have to do it and that is to act as if it were a linear combination, it is not a problem to solve either. that. In that sense, it means that the real demand for money, under normal conditions of pressure and temperature, so to speak, is a granite issue, it is practically a constant that has to do with the path, that is, the function of Demand for real money depends on the path of consumption throughout all of history, from today until the end of humanity would come to be. And that, basically, is an absolutely granite question. And that in equilibrium is equal to the real balances, that is, the nominal amount of money divided by the price level.
Therefore, given the real demand for money, when the Central Bank determines the amount of money, what it is doing is determining the nominal scale of the economy and, therefore, determining the price level. That is, this system determines all the prices in the economy. Hence the monetary nature of inflation. Because? Because to the extent that you increase the amount of money, you are modifying the nominal scale of the economy and consequently you are modifying the price level. Hence Milton Friedman's famous phrase: inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon. So, what's more, in real life there is no such

thing as the neutrality of money; basically why there is no such thing as the neutrality of money, because for you to fulfill the idea of ​​the neutrality of money is that I modify the amount of money and that has no impact on the real side of the economy, except in the price level. For this to be true, two assumptions must be made: the first assumption is that there is only one good, now, if there is only one good there, that economy does not have intertemporality, because if I have only one good, how do I differentiate between the goods of today and the goods of the future even if it were the same good? The same good today or tomorrow is not the same.
So, there I have that assumption. And I also need another assumption, which is to have the representative agent: that everyone has the same preferences, so that when I throw money at their heads, everyone reacts in the same way. And furthermore there are no redistributive effects of including money. So, if I assume a single agent, a single good, a single period and, of course, when I increase the amount of money everything goes to price, because I am not giving the possibility of a change in relative prices.

Therefore, if there is anything that the Central Bank can do, the only thing it can do is harm. Therefore, the best the Central Bank can do is nothing. And if the best the Central Bank can do is nothing, it is better not to have it, because a political criminal can always appear who wants to use it to defraud people. If not, look at what has happened to Argentine monetary history from 1935 onwards. Therefore, what is important is what is called the Hume-Cantillón effect, which has to do with the way in which money enters the economy and how relative prices change in the middle. This is a no small issue because if there is something that also annoys me enormously, it is when they talk about pass through. In reality, inflation is always everywhere a monetary phenomenon, which is produced by an excess supply of money, when that excess supply of money is generated, either because the supply increased or because the demand fell, or because the conditions passed. two things at the same time, money loses purchasing power, and all prices in monetary units rise.
Now, what happens: since the dollar is a financial asset, it rises first and then the other prices rise. The best expression of that, or the best explanation is what is called the Hume-Cantillon effect, and that can be done and you can look at the exchange rate, money and how they move. So, suppose, for example, a shock in which the demand for money falls, people now want to part with money. How does the fall in demand for money generally act in Argentina? I demand less money and start demanding dollars. So, the price of the

foreign currency rises, the price of the dollar, the exchange rate rises, I have a devaluation. After that, the price of tradables goes up, after that, wholesale prices go up, after that, retailers go up and, finally, salaries go up. That is to say, in the middle I generate a brutal redistribution of income in favor of the tradable sector and to the direct detriment of the non-tradable sector, further behind the tail of everything, which is work. Therefore, there you have what pass through, there is no pass through, it is a dynamic problem of how they adjust prices. That is, the analysis of the pass through is an abuse of the use of mathematics. I love it when an economist comes and says: “Well, what happens is that the pass through is much higher when there is higher inflation and it is lower when inflation is lower.” Obviously, it is a problem of abuse in statistics.
That's one case. The other case is when excess supply is generated due to supply impulse. So, now you inject money, what is going to happen to you: first you are going to raise retail prices, at the same time that you raise retail prices, you also raise salaries. This causes external accounts to deteriorate and, at the same time, wholesalers also increase, and after that they end up devaluing. That is, notice that there is the pass through, so it works the other way around. How is it going, how do you explain it? Besides, imagine that you create a problem due to the excess supply of pesos and then after you devalue that due to the excess supply of pesos, you say: “Well now I have to correct the real exchange rate, because actually looking at that number... " That? I say so that you can see the number of errors that are made analytically.

So now we get to the problem, now we get into the second part, which is the nominal anchor problem. The nominal anchor basically has four ways to determine the nominal anchor: one is to fix the amount of money. If I know that the real balances, that is, the amount of money divided by the price level, is equal to the demand for real money, and that under normal conditions is a fixed number, the price level will be determined by the quotient between the quantity of money and the demand for money. As I increase the amount of money, what will generate is that the price level will be higher. Now, if you also do this systematically, since you are going to be generating inflation permanently, that is what you are going to do is even worse because then it is going to cause the nominal interest rate to now escalate with inflation, and That will force there to be, not only that they will have higher inflation, but also in the middle with the fall in the demand for money due to higher inflation they will also have a jump in the price level.

Therefore, in the end they have fewer real balances to the economy; Therefore, they have less of a good; Therefore, they are worse. So not only is money not neutral, but it is also not super neutral and when you do this, as it also generates redistributive effects, it affects savings and investment decisions. And when they do that, they change the interest rate and when they change the interest rate, they change the capital structure. And when they do that, they also modify the entire demand for labor. So, of course, when you finish making an expansionary effect and left the entire structure of the economy unbalanced, the day you stabilize you will break capital in one place, in another and it will have to be recomposed in another place. Consequently, in the transition and yes, they will generate unemployment. Because now that we are lowering inflation, now what is the problem? And yes, unemployment is generated. And of course, obviously, if we are cleaning up the garbage that was made during the last 20 years, not to mention from 1935 onwards.

So, that is the case of the nominal anchor when you set the amount of money. So, if I set the amount of money, what I am doing is determining the price level, and if I came from issuing, we were up 28 points of GDP and 3 in the last year and of course the day you set the amount of money , what is going to happen? With all the delays they are going to have, and yes they are going to have inflation. Yes, of course and yes, because it has to do with the delays, all prices are being rearranged in light of the monetary disaster that occurred in the last four years, especially in the last year, where they were issued for the equivalent directly and indirect 13 points of GDP. Now, then there is another way to anchor the price level, which is by fixing the exchange rate, it is the one that has been used most regularly in Argentina. And, in fact, the most successful program in Argentine history was convertibility, which was basically anchoring the exchange rate. When you set the exchange rate, given that we are a small country - for now, by embracing the ideas of freedom we are going to make a big country again, but for now the assumption of a small country applies - you are going to have the level of given international prices. Therefore, given the exchange rate, given international prices, that determines the local price level. And obviously, given those two things that are fixed, the local price level has to be fixed as well. And if I have fixed the price level and the demand for money, therefore,
what comes out by default? What comes out endogenously?: the amount of money, the amount of money within the economy is going to be determined basically by the demand for money. Therefore, the person who explains this best, who has the most clarity about this, is Arriazu, one of the people who understands this best, because it is determined endogenously and, basically, only when

you issue against the demand for money is it not inflationary, or at least it does not cause the money to lose purchasing power. They are ways of looking at it, for me the problem is seigniorage. But beyond that, the point is that if you issue money against demand you do not have inflation problems, so to speak.

And that in convertibility was seen very clearly, because you basically issued against the demand for money, and what allowed prices to drop quickly. Same now later... bah yes, I do it now: there are differences between the program that we are doing and convertibility, because basically convertibility, it is true, lowered inflation faster than us, that is a point, I do not deny it, but basically some things happened in between. Before convertibility there were two hyperinflations, that of Alfonsín, more or less 5000% wholesale and that of Menem after the Bunge & Born plan and the Herman plan, I don't know how many versions there were, there were two hyperinflations. That is not minor, because that is what it does is destroy the monetary aggregates. Therefore, or any scheme that you set the exchange rate, what happens? You had a lot of demand for money going forward, so that dynamic of the demand for money was going to be able to help you anchor the price level. Apart from the fact that they fixed the exchange rate. That is the first point.
The second is one of the things that we are doing and it seems that many people overlook it, is that we are stabilizing without violating property rights. The work of Mr. Quirno, who is here, and the work of Mr. Bausili, - who I don't know if he is, where did they leave Santiago? - They are basically doing it without violating property rights. Because maybe they don't remember it, they were kids, but there was something called the Bonex plan and, in fact, a bunch of lying econochantas kept saying that we were going to expropriate, and the most interesting thing is that we are taking longer to stabilize , basically because we have decided not to expropriate. And we cannot determine when we are going to end this process, because since it is a market process and the market is the decision of individuals, we depend on how individuals decide. Therefore, we cannot determine the speed of the day. What day do you open the stocks? Don't know. Because since we are making it a market, it is determined by the people, is that clear? And, furthermore, we did not set any price, such as the exchange rate, and we did not call the businessmen so that they would not touch the prices. By the way, we do make a huge effort and Toto works enormously on that, and he goes and explains to everyone: “Hey, the nominal scale wasn't that, it's something else.” And you, no one

questions that you believed that the nominal scale was going to be different. If there were beasts who said that the exchange rate was going to be 10,000, there was one who said "not because it is dollarized it will make it $7000." I mean, where was the person who said that account? As, luckily, he got few votes and almost disappeared, he is one of the guys who has the most negative image, with whom he made the account, do you know who is the one who made the account?

That is another of the models. Another way you can do it is with what is called the commodity pattern, the commodity pattern is by setting the price level.
So, obviously setting the price level, given the demand for money, obviously that money remains endogenous, in Olivera's methodology or terminology it is called a commodity pattern, this scheme serves to think if they have a dirigiste mind and in that dirigiste mind you want to control prices. That is to say, for those who like to control the price, this model is perfect, because what does it do? sets the prices. In fact, one of the things that the Austral Plan did was not only fixing the exchange rate, but also fixing what else?: it controlled prices and, in fact, convertibility fixed the exchange rate, it did by law and they also called on businessmen to understand that this was the exchange rate.
None of those things, we don't do any of them. So, now, between the price level and the demand for money, you will determine the amount of money in the economy. Then there is another model, which is when you set the amount of money by looking at salaries. Obviously it is called a work pattern and basically a concentrated market structure is assumed, so that prices are a mark up of salaries. So, once you determine the mark up of wages, you determine the prices, given the prices and given the quantity of money - excuse me - the demand for money, the quantity of money is determined. That is, the amount of money is also endogenous. This model combined with the previous one, or in some combination with the previous one, be it the merchandise pattern or the labor pattern, between those two, it is usually used a lot for what are the distributive bidding models.

Now, the important thing is to understand that inflation in all these models is still a monetary phenomenon. Because basically, either because prices went up, or because wages went up, like wages went up then prices went up, that is what triggers endogenous money, which in the endogenous money models that are usually studied in Argentina, As by Walras' law, N at least one market is in equilibrium, the remaining one is, omitting the money market. But that

does not mean that it is not a monetary phenomenon, it is a monetary phenomenon, because in fact endogenously the model validates monetary value all the time. Therefore, those who talk about multi-causal inflation using these models are also other brutes and I don't even count it if they grab and say that a gap of 60% is fine and then complain about the stocks. We all know who I'm talking about. So there you have all the models, basically nominal anchor.
What's more, inflation targeting has a problem: which is which?, that it does not have a nominal anchor, which is what in Olivera terminology is called a credit pattern. There you have two types of problems; There is a problem that in a general equilibrium model that does not make sense because, look, we agree that Moreno was a villain, hey, come on, okay, okay, thanks, if we didn't have to take out the GPS. Well, wanting to control the interest rate is worse, because it means that I want to control, not only the present assets, as Moreno did, but I also want to control the assets in the future and believing that I am going to hit the Vixelian rate, implies a truly monstrous level of arrogance. Well, the problem of inflation targeting, first of all, again, the interest rate we already saw was not there, so it is a Keynesian rinse, in a strange model, which has nothing to do with the general equilibrium model. And if you do that, what is the problem? You now need to control all prices and, furthermore, no, in the logic of that model you cannot anchor the quantity of money because the logic of that model, how they determine the rate of interest in the money market, which is a monstrosity, in the monetary market the purchasing power of money is determined, but given that Keynesian monstrosity, the problem is that they cannot determine the quantity of money, because it is determined endogenously.
So how do you, how do you anchor the model? Basically what they need is to have expectations anchored. So, when you have anchored your expectations, given the present prices you can determine the future ones, with that you determine the demand for money, by determining the demand for money the nominal amount of money is determined and given that, you determine the price level. Of course, they have to have their expectations anchored, lest suddenly a turnip called the Chief Cabinet appears and, for political reasons, wants to change the interest rate because he doesn't like it, and ends up sending everything to hell and making a government loses the elections. We know who I'm talking about too, you know who I'm talking about.

So, but this is the important thing, understanding the role of the nominal anchor, because if we do not understand the problem of the nominal anchor, we do not know what we are talking about, we do not

understand the nature of stabilization. Because, now, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to get into what we are doing and how we are on the path to endogenous dollarization. Basically when we arrived, I know by heart I don't know why I brought my glasses, but when we arrived we found twin deficits of 17 points of GDP. You know that four points of GDP is a yellow light, eight of us hit a pineapple, imagine 17, that is, the pineapple was here. Not only that, but of those 17 points, 15 were explained by the fiscal deficit, where five were in the treasury and 10 were in the Central Bank. That is, the quasi-fiscal deficit, that is, what the Central Bank generated, generated 10 points of deficit.
This is not a minor point, because when you build a stabilization program it has three elements, it has a fiscal adjustment, it has a monetary adjustment which in our case is the cleaning up of the balance sheet of the Central Bank and it has an exchange rate issue. We made an honest assessment of the exchange rate and the exchange rate did not go anywhere, the exchange rate when there at the Hotel Libertador with Toto and his team, we said where to put it was that that exchange rate plus the PAIS tax would be close to the market exchange rate. Because in this way we minimized the excess demand for foreign currency. Therefore, we minimized the excess supply in the goods market, in the labor market and, therefore, although we were going to implement a painful solution in fiscal terms, where this increase in savings was not going to have investment as a counterpart and activity, employment will fall and, if real wages were going to fall, because we were honest with the economy, by doing it that way the damage was much less. Because then those who complain appear, they say: “I shouldn't have set the exchange rate at 600”, but it happens that in that model if things went well, there was also more inflation than we had and now they are the same as They complain about the late exchange rate. That is to say, please, recalibrate the model carefully because you are doing the math wrong, then. But they are not going to accept that they were wrong, but rather they are going to brag that the model has to explode because they were not wrong.

But apart from that, the gap was not the only problem we had. Then we had phenomenal stock problems, for example, we had debt maturities in pesos for the equivalent of 90,000 million dollars. What a job you got Quirno, eh? Not only that, we had the problem of the SIRA, which was like 50,000 million dollars, we had the problem of trapped dividends, we had the problem of remunerated liabilities, which the previous government so friendly, we had the Leliqs that were at 30, 60, 90, 120 and 180 days, everything happened in one day. Let me explain to you why he did it, do you know why they did it? Because they

believed that we were going to release everything without looking at the stock problem. And if we released everything without looking at the stock problem, we were going to generate hyperinflation, and in January there was already another government. That easy. But we didn't give them the pleasure, we are finishing, close to the end of May and we are still here with inflation falling. So, that's basically what we find. So, on a fiscal level, what did we do? We moved to a zero deficit policy. I was surprised and I saw some presentations from some analysts who claim to know a lot, who said that fiscal policy was inconsistent. If I go to zero deficit, what is interesting about zero deficit, that then I do not increase the debt; If I do not increase the debt, given the product, the debt-product ratio is non-increasing. What's more, if it expands with the population alone, it is already decreasing, therefore, I am solvent, therefore, clearly the fiscal policy becomes consistent. Think that, if the agreement with the International Monetary Fund fell, therefore, we had a huge problem of 25 billion dollars that were due, mostly with multilaterals, having the agreement fallen with the Fund, Toto and his team fixed this in two weeks, sorry on a weekend with the Fund, incredible. When you came, we came from a story that in normal terms would have taken three months. Because? Because precisely this policy was super consistent, in fact, it is so consistent that the country risk of 2900 passed 1200, and if it were not for the fact that the policy does not stop putting spokes in the wheel, we would have already passed the barrier of a thousand points a long time ago. But don't make problems, because we are going to continue insisting, with which at some point we are going to break that barrier and we are going to continue lowering the country's risk.

What's more, when we said that we were going to make this adjustment, everyone said that it was impossible, that more than one point could not be adjusted, after not only, let's see, in the middle of desperation I let them know... that is, , we wanted to close the accounts and, well, we were aiming for five and we got a little out of hand, we adjusted seven in the Treasury. Well, now we are recomposing, but in that dynamic fine tuning is a little complicated and fine tuning is fine, in the Excel sheet, in real life it is a little more complex, but that said that it was impossible to adjust more than one point per year, they found that in the first quarter we had adjusted seven points. Not only that, but already in the first month of management we had generated a financial surplus. So, instead of accepting that they were wrong, “nah, that's not a chainsaw, it's scissors plus a lot of blender.” I mean, let's see, we halve the number of ministries, we cut public works, because we don't believe in public works, we cut discretionary transfers to the provinces, we fire

a huge number of public employees and every time they go Contracts are falling, more public employees are leaving, we are lowering a lot of social plans that were work, or have you ever seen in your life the number of cases of corruption that are reported from Human Capital? Notice that we are the Executive Branch, therefore, it is now in the hands of Justice, do not ask me. We found the pufos, we reported them and now they are in the hands of Justice.

So, there was no chainsaw? There was a tremendous chainsaw and then I'll explain something to you, when the blender is permanent, it is also a chainsaw. So, those who said that an adjustment of more than one point of GDP could not be made. So
now what do they do? No, because the problem now is the quality of the fit. Come on, mediocre failure, you couldn't do it because you didn't have anything to do it with. Instead, the Lord and I have decided to put in what had to be put in, to see if you believe that it is easy to support these spending maniacs, degenerates of public spending. Notice that the only thing they are doing now is sending projects to Congress, for what? To break our fiscal balance. I warn you, in case you are interested, that any project that you send from Congress, that wants to break the box and blow up this country, I am going to veto it, I don't give a damn. That they are obviously going to do it for electoral purposes to try to grind us down electorally. But we are going to explain to people what they are doing, look how it backfired when they went with the issue of a noble cause of the universities and then people realized how a cause was prostituted with a lie and in which the entire political caste caught fire, and the entire ghost train ended up in a photo. Principle of revelation, apart from that we are now exporting it to the principle of revelation and how well it works.

So, the other thing that was very important in all this is the sanitation of the Central Bank, one of the things that the Central Bank recently published was the disaster that Kirchnerism caused in this last stage. That is to say, they broke the balance sheet of the Central Bank by 45 billion dollars, they bankrupted it. It is not a minor issue to bankrupt the Central Bank. Because you remember someone who, the one with the gastronomic metaphor, saying that the Central Bank is bankrupt is not a joke. Because, then, if I have the Central Bank bankrupt, what is the problem? That to recompose what I have as assets, versus what I have as liabilities, I need the price level to rise, for what? To liquefy the liabilities.
So, if I have a price level that liquefies liabilities such that my

net worth reaches zero, the more broke I am, the higher the price level I need. So if I join today's price level with the future price level, what is the slope of that? Inflation. So, to the extent that I am rebuilding and cleaning up the Central Bank's balance sheet, the implicit price level, what is it like?, is much lower. Therefore, I am lowering the inflation rate. Mr. Bausili, in charge of the Central Bank, has already recomposed 25,000 million dollars, that is, imagine the enormous work he is doing to kill inflation.
But it is not the only rubbish they left us there, we have other problems, one of the problems we have is that we have endogenous issuance through two quite perverse mechanisms, one is the remuneration of remunerated liabilities, which are repos. Well, this week that passed, in a fantastic operation coordinated between the Central Bank, Santiago Bausili and Mr. Pablo Quirno, a third of the money that was in the remunerated funds, we basically transferred it to depend on the Treasury.
And why could we do it now? And, because in the middle we were generating trust, we were generating fiscal results, in such a way that we were able to build a peso curve, and because now we have a peso curve, thanks to the enormous work of Mr. Pablo Quirno, we were able to already pass a third of the paid. So, to the extent that we lower the interest rate and transfer remuneration from the Central Bank to the Treasury, in this way, we will end up eliminating one of the endogenous emission mechanisms.

The other mechanism is a perverse mechanism which is that of puts, where there is co-responsibility with the IMF, because since they did not want to finance the treasury, they preferred the credit risk of the Central Bank and invented that monster of puts. So, when we finish with the paid ones, when we finish with the problem of the puts that we already have, we are getting it on track, it will end and we will advance in the reform of the financial system, the issuance by financial sector will end. Since we have a fiscal-financial balance, we do not need to issue through the treasury and, therefore, we are going to leave the exchange rate free and not issue more. Once we have that situation, we are going to send a law to Congress where the monetary issue is considered a crime, a crime like a crime against humanity, it will be an imprescriptible crime. So, if we issue money, the President of the Central Bank, the entire board of directors, the President of the Nation, the Minister of Economy, and deputies and senators will go to prison. That is to say, all those who work to issue money will all go to prison. You can tell me 'well, but if they implemented the convertibility law and stole from the Argentines at that very moment 14,000 million dollars, which in today's money must be like twenty-something thousand, why aren't they

going to return it? to do?' Well, because it is going to be considered a crime against humanity, it is going to have the same characteristics. So, yes, a government is going to come and it can do it, but then another one can come back and put them all in prison for doing that, which will make it quite complicated for them, that is, they will end up in prison.

But not only that, but there is also an additional issue: now I am going to have the amount of pesos fixed, and remember that I said that the demand for money is a demand derived from the intertemporal consumption path, you to increase permanent consumption path they need to have a permanent increase in income. Are we going there? Therefore, to the extent that we restore economic growth in the economy and there are reasons to explain this, basically, first, because we are beginning to rebound, because salaries in real terms either tie or beat inflation, and in In terms of food, it is winning by a landslide, because food inflation is very low. Second, because after 20 years of savage populism, punishing capital, they ate capital; by eating the capital, the value of the marginal product of capital, which in financial terms you want to beat from the flow of funds of the firm, or if you want given a wac, the van of the fund flow of the firm is positive and very large, given All the capital they ate, what's happening? That's going to generate investment, even if we didn't make the reforms. And as if all this were not enough, there were 15 points of the GDP that the State sucked, generating crowding out, and now there is going to be what? We give it back to the people. Think that we assume we are discussing hyperinflation, because in fact the wholesale inflation in December was 54% and that means 17,000 annualized, which - by the way - the last data gave 3.4 and if you take other of the price indicators of the wholesale price system, they are below
3. Therefore, the stabilization process is working very well. That's
funny, they say: “there is no stabilization plan.” And why does inflation go down, by any chance? I say, I ask, because we have to lower it from 54 to 3, but apart from that,
what is important? That 15 points of savings are going to return to finance the investment. And, then, from discussing hyperinflation, today we are discussing the return of mortgage credit. That is to say, the dream of owning your own home is back, young people couldn't think about having a car and now they think that they can have their own home. It's interesting, all in five months.

So, in that context what we are going to have is that the amount of money in the pesos is fixed. But what happens? If I generate economic growth and if I implement structural reforms, we are going to grow much more, which, if

Congress doesn't take it away from me now, I don't care, I'm going to try again. . And I am going to try as many times as I can, and if they do not let it pass, the beating that we are going to give it electorally next year is going to change the composition of Congress and we will be able to pass the entire reform. Because until now, look, the largest reform was Menem's, the Bases law is, as it is today in Congress, five times larger and not only that, but we also have the 300 reforms of the DNU, that is, we are eight times bigger. I'll tell you something: we still have 3,200 renovations pending. And you know what? We are going to do them. Sooner or later, we are going to do them, I don't care how much will I have to block dirty politics, I don't care: we are going to do it, we are not going to stop until Argentina is the most free country in the world. Yes, we are going to do it.

Therefore, to the extent that the economy grows permanently and that implies a permanent increase in consumption, the flip side is that the demand for money will increase. So what is the problem I have now if I left the amount of money fixed? The thing is that since I have a flexible exchange rate, the currency is going to appreciate, but also something else that can happen and will happen,
how was the increase in the demand for money resolved in convertibility? People went and sold the dollars to the Central Bank and thus injected the pesos, in fact, we were talking about that endogenous mechanism, well, but now we are going to issue ourselves.
How do we do then? We are going to allow currency competition, so let's assume, just to make it easy now, that the dollar can be used and we allow the dollar to be used as another currency; As the demand for money increases, the only way to monetize the economy is, with individuals putting dollars into the economy.
So what is going to happen? You are going to find yourself with a situation where the pesos are fixed and an economy that grows has more and more dollars, and has more and more dollars, always the same pesos and you make transactions in the currency you want. Consequently, the peso becomes something like a museum piece and when it is very small compared to the amount of dollars, what do you think we are going to do? We are going to dollarize and there the peso is going to disappear, and dollarization in a system of currency competition, because there are people who are afraid, "not because in reality, the appreciation and I don't know what..." Enough of the fear, enough of fear, so much fear of freedom, so much fear of prices. There is going to be coin competition. Then you will be able to use, did you see that some talk about a basket of coins? Well, you will be able to use the currency you want; They can use the dollar, they can use the yen, they can use the Renminbi, they can

use the pound sterling, the Franc, they can use whatever they want, it doesn't matter to me, I don't care, they use anyone. Therefore, there they would have a model of a basket of currencies, but instead of a bureaucrat determining the weights,
who will determine it?: the market will be determined by individuals with their decisions to buy and sell in the currency. whatever they want. But the truth is why go for something so intellectually short?

There is a university, the Francisco Marroquín in Guatemala, which is the first libertarian University in the world, you in one of the hallways, when you are walking, then, for example, you come across some strange murals and they have a glass on one side and that same drawing. Well, those were the bills they had in Guatemala before they had the Central Bank, which were issued by coffee companies. Guatemala has some of the best coffee in the world, so the money was issued by the coffee companies themselves. And it was in the interest, and that money was backed,
why? It was backed by coffee. That is to say, he was a serious merchandise pattern. So, in that context the reality is 'and if I dedicate myself to producing coffee, why don't I make my transactions in terms of coffee?' 'If I'm in the oil sector, why don't I do them in terms of WTI?' 'If I'm in the gas sector, why don't I do them in BTUs?' 'If I'm in the countryside, why don't I make them in soybeans?' That is to say, I use the currency and I make use of it, so notice that the risks of currency mismatch are going to collapse, you are going to be able to be matched as much as you want, the savings that you are going to have in terms of coverage insurance is huge. That is, look how transaction costs are also going to lower for the economy. And what an appreciation, the problem of appreciation is not discussed anymore, I believe that some economists do not want this type of things, I don't know if it is because they don't want to think or because they are going to run out of work. Imagine that they want to make a graph of the real exchange rate, what are you going to live on? Go and work on something serious.

So, in that sense, what I want to say is that this is the monetary regime to which we are aspiring, a situation where when we end all the issuance mechanisms the amount of money remains constant and the economy becomes endogenously dollarized, There it is dollarized and everyone is going to make the transactions in which they want, then the government will set a currency in which the government is paid, I don't know, the dollar and the problem is over, the problem is over and if you have dollars, you charge dollars, you pay in dollars. What's the problem? Do you do it in another currency? Well, since there is free currency competition and you convert them as

you want, you grab, exchange what you need to pay taxes and that's it,
what's the problem? It wasn't that complex. And in that way we are going to manage not only to stabilize the economy, which is what we are doing, what happens is that some say “but he said he was going to do it instantly”… Now, it is incredible, that now they tell me that I said that I was going to do it instantly and when I explained to them during the campaign I said that it took time, they told me “ah Javier Delaye.” Crazy, the level of gataflorism here and intellectual dishonesty is tremendous. So, to the extent that we clean up the Central Bank, we will be able to go to this zero emission regime and with the competition of currencies, the peso will lose relative weight within that and there, automatically, We dollarize, we end inflation forever, we take the knife from the murderous monkey that is politics. They are not going to screw us anymore with inflation and we are going to get to work on continuing to make structural reforms so that Argentina, in 35 or 40 years, can once again be a power. Thanks a lot.
