Speech by President Javier Milei at the Inter-American Council of Commerce and Production (CICyP)

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50491-discurso-del-presidente-javier-milei-en-el-consejo-interamericano-de-comercio-y-produccion-cicyp

Wednesday, May 15, 2024

Speech by President Javier Milei at the Inter-American Council of Commerce and Production (CICyP)

Good afternoon. Although I come as President, given how intense the debate is about whether there is an exchange rate delay, I cannot stop being an economist. So it seems relevant to me to have this debate because, from my point of view, with rare exceptions, from my point of view, what the majority of analysts are saying is wrong. Therefore, what I am going to do is show why what they say is wrong. What happens here, I called it “The dilemma of the caveats”, because, the truth is that, if the caveats are not made, they are, strictly speaking, blackmail. But if they do, why do they do this analysis if it is wrong? This is quite complicated and the issue is that a few have worked for many years with these stupid analyzes and, then, now, let's say, they need to justify, or let's say, as a result of all the mistakes they made in December, January, and as Now, since they made a mistake, instead of accepting that they made a mistake, they want to force reality to wash away their guilt.

So what I propose is a more serious debate, an intellectually honest debate and raise this: the first thing, and what seems much more serious to me, is, if I am going to define backwardness, it means that to define backwardness I am comparing against something. That means that I have to know the vector of equilibrium prices in the economy. That means that, since it is an open economy, I need to know the preferences of all the agents of the economy, on all the goods of the economy, endowments and technology but not only for the Argentine economy but for the world as well. Poor Hayek would be writhing in his grave right now. I mean, I couldn't believe the level of fatal arrogance we have in believing we can make that count.

Sometimes mathematical models are good for understanding how things work, but let's say, from there to believe it, I say come and someone bring me that price vector, let's say let's see if we are talking to someone serious or we are talking to a blackmailer. . Let's say it would be good if you read a little Hayek. Now, beyond that, beyond that, in fact one of the things that Hayek said, he said that one of the fundamental missions that economists had was to tell people all the things that we don't know, that is, here we are pretending to believe things that we don't have the faintest idea about, because if I ask each of you to define your preferences, I can assure you that I find it difficult, let's say, defining axioms and things like that.

In that sense, now I'm going to get into the methodology. So, let's say, the real exchange rate, let's say, is basically the exchange rate for the international price level over the local price. Therefore, you are looking at the deva… the international and local inflation and with that you decide whether the exchange rate appreciates or not. So one of the things they do is take a type of... Suppose they want to do it more seriously, then they take the entire series from the Argentine nation. If you want, and make that average and the first point is to define the interval of the series, say where it started from. OK. Now, the problem is that when you are working with an average. The reality is that if that series has a lot of volatility, the average is useless.

And if there is something that characterizes Argentina, it is that it precisely has a lot of volatility, and the real exchange rate is not the same in times of crisis where, let's say, the currency depreciates very strongly, or in times where there is trust, where it is very strongly appreciated. And Argentina has all those characteristics of volatility, therefore taking an average measurement with that level of volatility in the variable, I don't know, implies an inelegant qualifier. Now let's say, what's more, in other cases they also cut the series, so the question is why you cut it from this year and not from the next. Or some do it in another way, they directly consider, yes, that at some point the real exchange rate was in equilibrium and suppose that, let's say, someone came and said "This is it" and then, let's say, they took it, let's say In other words, they are like a sort of Moses of the economy, let's say, and he gave them the information and said, “This is it,” so let's assume that it happened to you sometime. And then it's me.

Now, suppose that you do indeed give that number and you know that number by some divine mystery, do you realize that if you take that type of reference change, from that moment, it implies that you, forward, are extrapolating the same conditions of supply and demand for each of the goods in the economy? And I ask you a question: if I gave you the best cell phone from 10 years ago, what would you do with that cell phone today? They don't even use it for waste. You imagine the first ones, which were like bricks, remember? They realize that this extrapolation does not make any sense. That is to say, the population changed, the preference changed, the goods changed, the technology changed, which is an absolutely idiotic extrapolation.

Therefore, and also you, again, if you wanted to do it well you would need to know the preferences, technology, and endowments of Argentines and the world, but not only now, in static terms, but you should also know it inter-temporally. . That is, from now until the end of human history. Don't you think it's a little arrogant to believe that you can make that count and happily define 'there is a delay'? I mean, just to consider what that little number says when you look at the little number. Now. Does that mean that as economists we can't say anything? No no. It doesn't mean we can't say anything. There could be indirect ways or mechanisms to believe that there is some problem or there is some imbalance. That is to say, one thing I would have to do is... well... What does the profession understand by these types of issues and under what circumstances could one believe that an imbalance could be occurring that will result in us hitting ourselves? to put it elegantly.

So, what I am going to do is review two standard models and see, let's say, what those indicators could be that show that there is a problem in the exchange market; or that there is an imbalance, that there is a situation that could lead to an outbreak. The model, let's say, more conventional, more standard, I mean one could work, I mean what the Mundell-Fleming model is and I could correct it to put a supply curve on it, let's say so that it doesn't give that stupid model of only adjusting quantities .

So, I brought you the different variants. So, I say, for example, let's take the case of fixed exchange rate. So, I have a fixed exchange rate, in the Mundell-Fleming if I apply expansive monetary policy, what it is going to do is, strictly speaking, if the quantity adjustment model, the imbalance in the rate is what is going to make me is that my capital is gone, the counter card is that I lose reserves. Therefore, let's say, imbalance, one of the things that one should be appreciating, then, if you have any macro imbalance problem, is losing international reserves.

If I'm not mistaken, the man sitting there has bought more than 16,000 million. It seems that it doesn't go that way. So, well now we are going to assume the case that we now carry out active monetary policy but there is a, let's say, vertical supply curve.

So, not only does the interest rate go down and that generates an outflow of capital, but it also causes me to raise prices and in that increase in prices, the exchange rate also appreciates, my trade balance deteriorates, with which not only that I have a loss of reserves, but also that I have a deterioration in the trade balance and the current account, and with prices in an upward trend. I mean, it is not happening, because let's say, we are accumulating reserves and prices are on a downward path, that is, the inflation rate has been falling and let's say, none of these things manifest themselves in losses of reserves. Not only that, but look at the intellectual dishonesty of those who want things to go wrong because they screwed up, that is, the serial cheaters. Again, look, there is a political analyst from the United States who, when he analyzed the coming to power of our space, surely very influenced by the things that were said here, like the dollar at 7,000 to 10,000 and all those things that they said, let's say he had a very negative vision and the man says "Look, the truth is that I was wrong" and he is just not someone, let's say , a liberal libertarian.

But well, here it seems that, let's say, it is not easy to recognize that they were wrong and it is easier, let's say, to criticize until it looks like the thing they predicted. I mean, I give you as an example those who spoke, for example, that the real interest rate had to be positive and the amount of things they have said to Toto and Santiago for that. And if we had listened to him, today the ratio of remunerated liabilities on a monetary basis would be eight or nine times and today we would be talking about carrytrade and hyper and all the problems and, let's say, how we would have to be fixing this by expropriating .

That's how we are, go and look for the reports that talked about positive real interest rates. So, that scenario is not happening either and what I was saying about yesterday's inflation data, look, unlike others, look, I'm going to compare it with the convertibility stabilization plan, which was the most successful in history to see. the size, let's say, of the problem. Convertibility, let's say, comes after two hyperinflations, I don't need to clarify that, let's say, having two hyperinflations quite smooths out the monetary issue because it destroys monetary assets, therefore, let's say, the possibility of the demand for money falling. Now, let's say, that is, at those levels, it becomes almost impossible. Which is no less important for the purposes of stabilizing an economy. But not only that. There was an expropriation, there was a Bonex Plan, and it was forcibly anchored by fixing the exchange rate, yes? And not only that, but there was also a sort of price agreement. So, we were facing a crisis that had the monetary imbalance of the previous Rodrigazo, a broken balance sheet like that of Alfonsín's Central Bank. Incidentally, the Central Bank recently showed the disaster that Kirchnerism generated in its last mandate, skipping 45 billion dollars, leaving the Central Bank bankrupt, where there is a reconstitution of assets of more than 25 billion dollars. A round of applause for Mr. Santiago Bausili, please.

We did everything on the market here, there was no expropriation of everything on the market. It is not my fault that they do not understand how the Nominal Anchor problem works, which I will explain later. The reality is that we are doing this entire process of stabilizing disinflation with correction of relative prices. So why do I talk about intellectual dishonesty. Because it is true, the inflation rate yesterday we knew was 8.8%. But we are recomposing relative prices. It's not that, let's say, we're not doing them. And when you look at the core, it was 6.3%. When you look at what is happening with food and beverages, almost all indicators are below 3%. In fact, the most common is, let's say, FIEL's, let's say, gave 1.7%.

That is, it is happening. What happens is that it is easier for those who screwed up to say that there is no stabilization plan. The question is: If there is no stabilization plan, what do you think inflation falls by chance? It is truly insulting, let's say, for someone to think for two minutes about the things they are saying. As you will see, today is a little bloodier than usual. I still have more, notice. Then, another mechanism is, let's say, using active fiscal policy. That is, then, in that context, I would be generating a fiscal deficit, I would be raising the interest rate and that would cause capital to enter, yes? And that would increase my reserves. But the reality is that we are not raising the interest rate. In fact, the effective rate when we arrived was 250%. Today the rate is 40.

Therefore, it is not working on that side either, and if I put the effect of price increases that this fiscal movement would cause on me, one of the things that I would have to see would be the trade balance, the current account, deteriorating strongly. , and that would have to be compensated, let's say, with what has to do with the capital account and, therefore, the reserves would hardly be moving, but the counterpart of this is that there would be a deterioration of the public accounts and a rise in the country's risk, and whether they like it or not, those who said that it was impossible to adjust more than one point of the deficit in a year, we made an adjustment in the treasury of seven points of GDP, obviously, yes in the middle of The crisis we faced, obviously, and we overreacted a little, yes obviously. But, let's say, that made us reach fiscal balance in the first month of management.

So, imagine, now we can start relaxing and giving back, why? Because we already overreacted the fiscal balance. But they had said that making a one-point adjustment was impossible, and we adjusted seven. And in the Central Bank, no one answered as to how it was corrected, we have already dropped from the 10 points of the deficit, we dropped seven and with the new rate reduction we are going to a reduction of 8. Therefore, as you will see, we are making an adjustment of 15 points of GDP. Impossible? Nothing. We are doing it.

Therefore, all those forms of debt... I mean, now we don't get into debt because we have fiscal balance, we have balance in the financial account. That means that the debt does not increase. If the debt does not increase, that means that the debt-to-product ratio is not increasing. Consequently we are solvent. And the market realized that. The country risk of 2900 points fell to 1200 points. The bonuses that were $18 when we won are now $60.

It goes without saying that, let's say, if you have a fixed exchange rate scheme and you want to carry out active monetary policy, and prices begin to rise and external conditions deteriorate, one of the consequences is that you put exchange controls in place. capitals, then, would have to see a growing gap. Hello gap, where were you because we don't see you. No? because, let's say, the gap when they correct for COUNTRY Tax is zero. Therefore, the problem is not seen from that side, let's say. Obviously, if you, let's say, had a flexible exchange rate, obviously that would be corrected, let's say, quickly in the exchange rate. Yes, you could raise an objection in the case of fiscal policy, because basically you would be having pressure on prices, the trade balance would deteriorate, and the day you run out of financing, that's when the problem would appear.

But on the other hand, what happens with the country risk and whether or not they get the financing to do it is always pivoting. But I say that could be a case that... let's say... But, also, there is no fiscal deficit. The country risk is falling and we are not losing reserves and we are needing financing from anyone. Now, I understand that one could tell me 'this model is not the most elegant model'. So I'm going to use another model that's a little funnier... the funniest thing is that the model, which is funnier, is going to make them more ridiculous, that's the funniest part of this. Because what I'm going to say is so obvious that, honestly, the next time an economist comes to you and tells you that there is an exchange rate delay, you're going to have to drop your face in shame, or at least if you didn't listen to this talk. , you are going to laugh in your face because you already know that he is stealing your money.

One way, let's say, to see the problem if the exchange rate is behind or not, is to make a model with tradables and non-tradables. So, the real exchange rate, if you want, is given by the price of tradables over the price of non-tradables. So, for example, if you carry out active fiscal policy and how you consume tradable goods, what you are going to do is that the price of non-tradable goods, then the price of non-tradable goods
is going to be rising, and you are going to be there. generating is an exchange appreciation. That would be the case. The reality is that, then, the exchange rate appreciation would result in a fiscal deficit. We have just described an adjustment that will be around 15 points of GDP, therefore there is no more State in the economy, there is much less. Therefore, in principle the model would say “Hey, it's not around here.”

But now I'm going to make it even funnier, more ridiculous, I'm going to make it ridiculous so that you can get an idea of ​​the ridiculous things that another family of economists say, because I can't call them heirs of Adam Smith, I'm sure not. Now I'm going to make it easier, suppose that for some reason, I don't know, a torpedo comes and blows up half of the non-tradable sector of the economy. Negative supply shock on the supply of non-tradables in the economy. What would the natural response be? May the price of non-tradables rise, or not? According to the squares, these devaluation fans would tell you that this is corrected with a devaluation. This is stupidity the size of a house, I just blew up the productivity of the non-tradable sector. If I take and devalue to correct that, what will never happen is that I have the allocation of resources that is setting my prices, the prices are telling me that non-tradables are rising and I have to send resources to that sector.

But they are so fatally arrogant that they want to touch the exchange rate when they do not realize that the problem is not in the exchange rate. The problem is not in the exchange rate, it is that I suffered a productivity shock. It's called 20 years of populism. And if you want to take it better, it is called 100 years of populism. Wanting to correct it by devaluing, the only thing it does is increase the number of poor indigents and does not solve the problem. Because with that devaluation what I am doing is aborting the process in which I reallocate resources. That is to say, when I clean up the entire system, if Argentina is going to give face in dollars, but it is not corrected by devaluing, it is corrected through structural reforms in the non-tradable sector, that would become the rule. Therefore it is absolutely ridiculous. So an indicator then that I have a problem that from economic policy I am generating exchange rate delay would have to be seeing a growing fiscal deficit. We just said that we made an adjustment of 15 points of GDP. Ready. There is no room for discussion there.

The other is, I am carrying out an active monetary policy. So I have an active monetary policy, so and I am generating these imbalances, the reality is that the amount of money in real terms is collapsing. We are going to discuss this a little later, about how the way out of all this is. Therefore, let's say, if I see how the economy's monetary assets are falling in real terms, it is clear that we are not doing expansionary monetary policy. And in fact we are doing enormous work to stop all emission faucets. We have stopped the fiscal tap. In fact, fiscal policy, today, is a money contraction mechanism. It seems like a joke, but this is Argentina now under the government of La Libertad Avanza.

But not only that. The other is, if I do active monetary policy and have stocks then there would have to be a gap, I remind you, I say, that when we arrived, that is, the gap was 200%, I mean there was a three to one relationship. That is to say, and there are brazen, liberticidal people, who throughout their lives lived talking about having to put sand in the wheels, right? That is, and now they come to talk about the stocks, the stocks, the stocks, the stocks. I mean, or those who ask the question and say, but the stocks, but the stocks, and they are the same ones who said that a gap of 60% was fine and you could live with that. I say there is every cheek going around that...I say you should not read the things they wrote before. That's why, let's say, something very funny that is going around on Twitter is when they are held accountable, and they start sending the reports they wrote in December, January, it is a dish. And the same people who talk about the late exchange rate are those who said that we were crazy because we took it to an equivalent of 800 and the correction for the COUNTRY Tax, and it was close to 1000 and who said that it was nonsense to do that, they are the same ones who said that it had to be set at 600 and had a higher inflation hypothesis than what we have, in real life and now they talk about exchange rate delay.

It doesn't close the model, I don't know, they make fuzzy math. The other case is the issue of international reserves. If we had a delay problem we would have a systematic drop in reserves... But we don't stop buying. And then there is the issue of prices, where the decreasing path of inflation is clearly seen. This is interesting because when we arrived the first week of December the prices were running at one daily rate which was the equivalent of 3700% annually. In the second week it accelerated to a little more and that annualized gives 7500. And if you look closely, it may be that wholesaler is published after the CPI, but in reality it is an indicator that is ahead of them. The CPI gave 54% That annualized gives 17000%. And that would have been possible if there had been monetary validation. But the monetary validation did not occur because we decided to stop the issuance because we decided to stop public spending and introduce the fiscal adjustment, not the largest in Argentine history, but the history of humanity.

That is, something that is recognized throughout the world, except here. 'Because the quality of the fit is not optimal.' I'm going to tell you something, 'No, because it's very much a blender and it has little scissors.' First, let's say, we have cut public works, we made it zero, we cut discretionary transfers, we do not stop cutting choreos, we took the structure of the State in half. “No, but it's a scissor.” What scissors? We are, let's say, recomposing rates. “But it's a scissor”, those who said that on top of that it couldn't be adjusted more than one point. And then I tell you something: when the blender becomes permanent, it is also a chainsaw. That is, let's say, I'm going to call it “Plaster Pig”: to get a handle out of it you have to break everything, which I endorse. It is unbreakable, and I am going to tell you something else, if someone wants to break it first they will have to break me, because I am not going to deliver the fiscal result. Then, back, decreasing public spending, decreasing country risk, falling interest rates, therefore, the model does not close them. In other words, there is no element of economic theory that supports the nonsense of the exchange rate delay. Argentina's problem is not a problem of exchange rate delay. I mean, back, and this is because they don't know, most of them are so stupid that they don't know what the nominal anchor problem is. It's that brutal and I know it. So, I am going to explain what the nominal anchor problem is.

When you want to know the demand for money, the demand, money exists because basically there are two problems regarding the barter economy. One of the double coincidences, let's say what I want to sell has to coincide with someone else wanting to buy it from me, and be the same good, let's say, so that we can make a reciprocal transaction, which is difficult. In a small society it may be, in a large society it becomes difficult. And then there is the problem of indivisibility. So, the human beings didn't start crying when it happened, they grabbed it and they fixed it. In that context money appeared, now money, I say it doesn't matter, let's say, in what form I say, when man was nomadic it was cattle, when, let's say, he settled down and became sedentary as what he ate most was bread, then wheat became currency. Because? Because it is a good of indirect exchange, that is, it is not that they demanded it because they wanted the wheat, they demanded it because it was used to make other transactions. If you understand this, then the demand for money is actually a way of financing the intertemporal path of consumption.

Nobody is thinking of taking the money to the wooden suit. On the other side you don't buy anything, you buy here. So why am I going to take myself to the other side? It is a miscalculation. In fact, inheritance is a miscalculation. But having said that... Hello teacher! I don't envy you... It's Professor Espert who just arrived from Congress. So the demand for money is a way of financing the intertemporal path of consumption, but consumption depends on what deep parameters Robert Lucas Jr. would say, may he rest in peace, that is, at the bottom of the preferences of the endowments and the technology and how these parameters are given in normal printing and temperature conditions, the demand for money is a granite question and that has to be equal to the real balances. That is, the amount of money divides the price level. So what is nominal anchor? The thing is that I set the amount of money so that the price level is determined.

Hence, the monetary nature of inflation, that if I issue, prices rise. And that is the problem of the nominal anchor, that the demand for money is determined by individuals. And since it is determined by individuals, the only thing the Central Bank can do is harm, it cannot say good. Because? Because basically, let's say, that's a parameter that's there. And if you start messing with the inflation rate and generating inflation and all that, I mean, the demand for money starts to move. Obviously, of course. And there other problems appear. But, basically, you set the amount of money, for what? So that the price level is determined. So, when you anchor the quantity of money, you are going to anchor the price level. Let's see if they find out, we with the fiscal result, okay? What we are doing is anchoring what. The amount of money. And why haven't we opened the trap yet? Because we have an endogenous emission mechanism, such as passes or puts. The day we end with the paid repos, which with the successive rate reductions we are eliminating, once we also end, let's say, with the problem of puts, one of the things that will happen is that the amount of money will go to remain fixed and there they will meet the nominal anchor. That is, it is not always, let's say, the exchange rate. I mean, you can't be so square that you believe that there is only one way to anchor the economy.

Of course, if I set the exchange rate given international prices, local prices are determined, and given the demand for money, the quantity of money is endogenously determined. But I mean, it's not the only way to anchor. How am I going to be anchoring the exchange rate if they left me with 12,000 million dollars of negative reserves? Is it clear? So, what all this does is demystify that there is an exchange delay, that is, there is no exchange delay, that is, what I have are other problems. I have an infrastructure problem, for example, I have a soft infrastructure problem, that is, I have a contractual-based problem. I have a hard infrastructure problem, that is, I have a hardware problem, and we are working with the DNU, with the law, let's say, of bases, we are working on what has to do with the soft infrastructure.

We are looking for mechanisms, let's say private initiative, to correct the hard infrastructure. Obviously, we have commercial issues and little by little we are releasing the restrictions, little by little we are opening. It's not that we're not doing it. One of the things that the IMF praised us most is how every day we lift restrictions in the exchange market. Now, we are not going to do them all together and now I am going to explain why. When we arrived, only 15% of imports were paid. Today 70% is paid. Small difference, they don't tell you, right? 'The stocks, the stocks, the stocks'.

But then, back, we are ending the problem of passes, something that is on track, fixing the problem of puts, something that the International Monetary Fund allowed an indirect financing mechanism to the previous government, and which turned a blind eye and he looked the other way, and they left the problem to us, which is a mechanism, let's say, it's an American put, that is, when the banks feel like it, they can execute it for me, with which, let's say, It is transformed into a monetary issue, so I need to correct that as well. And not only that, we have the problem of dividend debt, where the other day, let's say, we already removed, we managed to clear 1.7 billion more dollars. That is, what we are doing, we are, if you were a financial manager, what we are doing is matching the flow of foreign exchange funds. Because? Because they created a stock problem for me in the previous government, if that stock problem, I release instantly and it becomes a flow, it makes me temporarily jump the exchange rate, but if you make me temporarily jump the exchange rate and I The demand for money falls, I can go to a hyper.

How close are we to opening? The truth is that we are very close to opening. Because? Basically because, on the one hand, when we look at the monetary base - historically so far in the 21st century the GDP would have to be around 9% - the pure base is 2.5. So there is a lot to do. When we take the paid ones we go to 8. In other words, we are in the zone of being able to open. So, if we solve the problem of paid liabilities, which we are doing by lowering the interest rate; If we solve the put problem, something we are actively working on. The Lord of God is waiting long enough with that issue. And, on the other hand, we are fixing the dividend problem. If you notice, we are matching the foreign currency fund flows and when we finish doing that we are going to open the stocks.

It is, let's say, in our plans to open it as quickly as possible. But do you know why we took so long? Because we do it to the market. Because it is determined by the will of the individuals. In other words, we don't do it prepo, we don't do it by force. That is to say, that is a distinctive characteristic of this government, which strictly respects property rights. But not only that, it is not the only problem we have. We also have another problem which is the issue of taxes. So, you have national taxes, provincial taxes and municipal taxes. We, in the May Pact, what we are proposing is that the public sector goes to 25 points of the entire consolidated GDP.

Therefore, the intention is to lower taxes and we have the intention of lowering taxes, and I am going to show you where it is demonstrated that we want to lower taxes. First, if I look at it Rothbard or Friedman, I say, when I look at the size of the public sector it is the true fiscal burden. And with everything we did to lower it, let's say, obviously, let's say, return 15 points to the private sector, if in the transition we change some type of tax it is a second-order issue, because in the net they dropped a lot. But having said that, let's go for explicit taxes. What would the dynamics be like?

The dynamic would be to first eliminate the COUNTRY Tax, then the withholdings, and then the tax on bank debits and credits, for example. Where can you see where our will is to want to lower taxes? In that we never wanted to share them, because if we participate we will never download them again. So, the best sign that we want to lower them is that we do not share them. But it's not us alone. We have the will to lower taxes. As the economy begins to rebound and begins to grow, we will go down, have no doubt, but it is not just us, we are in a federal country. And they also have to incorporate that, if they cannot ask me to do what a municipality, much less a province, has to do, then sometimes I say they ask for things that are not within the function.

So, the reality is that once we do all this, if you pay attention, what is going to happen is that, if we finish cleaning up the issue of paid liabilities, if we finish with the puts and, furthermore, we finish cleaning up dividends, what is going to happen is that, from then on, we stop all the monetary issuance taps. That is, it is not issued by the treasury, because we have a fiscal surplus, it is not issued by the financial sector because we do not have these endogenous emission mechanisms, and it is not going to be issued by the external sector. That is, we are going to go to a flexible exchange rate. This is not minor, because the anchor in pesos is what it will be. It will be, precisely, the amount of money which will not move. What's more, we are going to send a zero emission law so that when money is issued the president of the Central Bank, the board of directors of the Central Bank, the Minister of Economy, the President of the Nation, the President of the Nation and all of them go to prison. the deputies and senators who approve rubbish of these characteristics. And at the same time we are going to launch a coin competition. So, when the economy begins to expand, I say, now they are going to cry more about the exchange rate delay, now they are going to start crying, let's say, that is, they are going to have to feel ashamed. The other thing we are going to do is that we are going to lengthen the competition of currencies, therefore, to the extent that the economy expands, that is, the consumption path becomes larger, let's say, that is, in consumption amounts, assuming the same time, well we already said we do not know the time, that is why we said that inheritance is a calculation problem, so that is what it will do is increase the demand for money, but we are not putting pesos in the economy. So what is the consequence? That the economy is going to begin to be endogenously monetized by the individuals themselves, putting, if you want, more dollars into the economy, or whatever currency you want.

Therefore, let's say we are going to go to a regime where the peso is going to be fixed and you are going to choose the currency you want. All currencies will compete against the peso. Do you like the exchange rate, the currency basket? Well, the place that is determined by a bureaucrat, a ponderer, is going to be determined by yourselves with your decisions. That is to say, the problem of exchange appreciation is over. Of course: the weight is going to be like a rock. Because it doesn't move, but you will be able to choose what currency the transactions will be in. And as the economy expands, the amount of pesos will be relatively smaller. And, when you realize, the amount of pesos that I will be able to dollarize or the economy or any of those monetary schemes and eliminate the Central Bank will be so small. And the possibility of any thieving politician in this country robbing them again with the tax will end.

Therefore, it is not that there is no economic program. If they are short-sighted, it's not my fault. If they are ignorant, it is not my fault. Because, again, those who say “no, it has to have a projected productive matrix”, I say I am not Leontief, I am not a communist, I am a liberal. I believe that the architects of the future are you. Therefore, do not ask the elm for pears. I'm not going to be an interventionist. I'm going to be a libertarian liberal and I believe that you are the wealth creators. Thanks a lot.
