Speech by President Javier Milei at the Cato Institute and Libertad y Progreso conference

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50538-discurso-del-presidente-javier-milei-en-la-conferencia-del-instituto-cato-y-libertad-y-progreso

Wednesday June 12, 2024

Speech by President Javier Milei at the Cato Institute and Libertad y Progreso conference

Javier Milei: First of all, I want to thank my dear friend Agustín Etchebarne, director of the Libertad y Progreso Foundation, and Peter Gotler, president of the Cato Institute, for allowing me to speak at this meeting today, sharing the program with renowned intellectuals in the liberal academic environment, whom I have studied and admired for years. I want to begin by referring a little to the moment that Argentina faces and the titanic political, economic and cultural task that we are undertaking from the national government.


Having just completed six months since the beginning of our mandate, I want to stop for a moment to highlight the size of the feat that Minister Caputo and his team are carrying out, because sometimes one listens to some politicians or economic analysts and from what they say , it seems like an idea that they lived in another country: it would seem that they live in Narnia. So let's briefly put the work of our economic team into perspective. In December we inherited twin deficits of 17 points of GDP; an exchange gap of 3 to 1 between the parallel and the official dollar and a monetary surplus similar to that of the previous Rodrigazo; an indebted state almost on the brink of default; prices that were already traveling at 1.5% daily and that, combined with the Central Bank debt, led us towards hyperinflation, with the aggravating factor of having poverty indicators much worse than in the prelude to any other crisis in our history. That is, in good romance we receive a picture of a worse situation than the previous one from the Rodrigazo legacy, in terms of monetary imbalance, a situation in the Central Bank much worse than the one that existed at the beginning of 1989, prior to the hyperinflation of Alfonsín, and with social indicators that were even worse than those we had in 2001. We were facing what was going to be the worst crisis in all of Argentine history.


And it is also worth saying that the government that was leaving was aware of this. I speculated that our libertarian position would decide to open everything instantly. And this is interesting because all the liabilities remunerated at one day had passed, with a phenomenal stock imbalance, the SIRAS debt for 50 billion dollars, the debt for dividends, debt in pesos maturing for the equivalent of 90 thousand million dollars, 25 billion dollars of foreign debt to mature with multilateral organizations, with the agreement with the Fund fallen. A government that, in addition, over the four years issued the equivalent of 28 points of GDP, but of those 28, 13 were issued during the last year. And we have to tell them to their face, they expected us to release everything, ignoring the dynamics of the stocks and for everything to explode in such a way that they would throw people into the street, do not rule out their methodology of throwing dead people in the street, going for the looting. Something that some journalists promote from their spaces. They cry for freedom of expression but they are calling for crimes to be committed, which is also a crime. And in that context, let the entire crisis do the work, the dirty adjustment and they return as redeemers at the beginning of 2024.

In just 6 months of management we stopped the financing of the Treasury with monetary issue, made the largest public spending adjustment in the history of humanity and achieved the first quarter with fiscal and financial surplus in the national public sector, after 20 years. In this context, we also systematically lowered Central Bank rates and are deactivating the debt bomb in pesos. Even in a context of high inflation, despite what many said it could not be done. I also want to mention there, because this is important: when we talked about the adjustment we were going to make, they said it was impossible. Some fools who said that more than one point of GDP could not be adjusted, when we made the Treasury adjustment, we expected to reach financial balance throughout 2024 and we achieved it in the first month of management. Then they said that we had done it in an accounting cosmetic way, I mean accounting cosmetics to adjust five points of the GDP is quite difficult. But those same people who said that we could not adjust more than one point, later found that not only did we have a financial surplus in January, we had a financial surplus in February, we had a financial surplus in March, we had a financial surplus in April, in May and we are going to end the first semester with a surplus
And not only that, but, in parallel, we had a quasi-deficit of 10 points of GDP and today we have lowered it by 9 points of GDP. Until now we have adjusted the equivalent of 15 points of GDP. And we did all of this in less than 6 months. Many times I also find it funny when they say “he said he was going to lower taxes and he raised them” and the question is, what do you think seigniorage is? Seigniorage is a scam. We are reducing seigniorage by 15 points of GDP. We are returning 15 points of GDP to the people.

For this reason, while in the month of December we were discussing hyperinflation, something that many dishonest intellectuals also try to leave aside by reporting only what was happening with the CPI and not what was happening with the wholesale price index, which gave 54%. And that annualized number is 17,000. Wholesale inflation in April was 3.4%, which annualized equals 50%. I understand that 50% is an aberration, it is an aberration. But in the alternative scenario, we were traveling at 17,000%. It would be good if they were more intellectually honest. Another discussion that I also find very interesting, and that has great academic value from my point of view, is the discussion of the interest rate. To use it as an instrument of economic policy to control inflation. My displeasure with manipulating the interest rate is not new. My displeasure with the Keynesian perspective that the interest rate is determined in the money market is not new. Because the interest rate exists, because time exists, not because money exists. It exists because time exists. And it exists with individuals who are willing to transfer consumption from the present to the future, save; and there are individuals who are willing to move production from the present to the future, that is, invest. And therefore, the interest rate is an intertemporal coordination mechanism, not the result of printing colored pieces of paper.


In this context, we consider that inflation is always, everywhere, a monetary phenomenon that is generated by an excess supply of money, either because supply increased or because demand fell, or both happened at the same time. , which causes the purchasing power of money to fall and that implies that all prices expressed in monetary units rise. Therefore our bet was to stop the issuance of money. We had the conviction and we were managing to close the issuance to finance the treasury, but we had another problem which was the endogenous issuance of money: if you look at it, most of the analysts at that time recommended that we put the interest rate at positive real levels. If we had listened to him, today the relationship between remunerated liabilities and the monetary base would be above 8, we would be discussing the problem of carry trade, we would be discussing the Leliqs bomb and lowering inflation would be literally impossible.


However, we decided to arbitrage the interest rate in dollars. It implied a negative real interest rate in pesos and that allowed the Central Bank's balance sheet to be put in order. Simultaneously, with the fiscal surplus that also allowed us a substantial drop in the country risk and allowed us to recreate a debt market for the government debt, in a monumental task carried out by the Secretary of Finance Pablo Quirno and that in conjunction with the president of the Central Bank, began to mutate the debt that was in the Central Bank, to take it to where it originally should have been, compared to the financing of the fiscal imbalance, which was in the Treasury accounts. This means that today, the ratio of remunerated liabilities with respect to the monetary base is 1.2 times. That is to say, we reduced it to a third. But it is important to have an idea of ​​the quantitative notions of that. Today we have a monetary base of 15 billion pesos and we have remunerated liabilities of 18 billion pesos. Now, the interesting thing is that those 18 trillion pesos, 12 trillion are in the hands of public banks. Of those 12 billion, seven are in Banco Nación, where the counterpart is that there are 3.5 billion of Treasury deposits within Banco Nación, therefore, there are seven that are not a problem. There are three that are in the hands of Banco Provincia Buenos Aires. I mean, although the communist dwarf is an enemy of freedom and especially of this government, the fact that he has a fiscal deficit makes him use Banco Provincia as a financing mechanism and he has such a demanding position in liquidity that he cannot move it. from there. And, what remains, much of it is with the City government. Therefore, the real problem we face is 6 billion pesos. And think that we have had, in some of the placements, offers for 18 billion pesos. That is to say, we have practically cornered the problem of remunerated liabilities, this problem of endogenous issuance.

However, I also want to state that once we are done with that, there is still one final stage to solve the stocks problem, which is to solve the puts problem. It is probably one of the biggest perversions committed by the previous government. Faced with the banks' unwillingness to finance the treasury, they indirectly used the Central Bank. And in a way that also had the complicity of the International Monetary Fund, they financed it with instruments that are puts. So what is the problem? Within the balance sheet of the Central Bank what appears is the amount of the put and not the contingent liabilities that are open. To give them an order of magnitude, these contingent liabilities represent four points of GDP, when today the monetary base is 2.8. Imagine what it would be like to throw all that amount of money into the street. Imagine that in addition and be aware of this that they are not even European puts, where you have defined the term in which they expire; They are American puts and can be executed at any time. Therefore, once we finish with the paid ones, what we are doing is working on the solution to the put problem to definitely open the trap there.

In that context, we are also confident because today, between what we have as a monetary base and remunerated liabilities, that already reaches six points of GDP, when historically the base demand in the 21st century oscillated between 8 and 9 points of GDP. Therefore, once we finish solving the put problem, I commit that we will definitively open the stocks. So, having said these references both on the fiscal level and on the monetary level, as a result of the fiscal anchor and the monetary anchor, inflation has been falling sharply for 5 months. What's more, in a few days the inflation data for May will be known and everything indicates that it will be below five points. In short, our stabilization program is demonstrating its effectiveness. There I also want to mention the intellectual dishonesty of many of our colleagues, because I may be President but I do not stop being an economist, nor am I going to stop being one. Furthermore, after this I have to continue earning a living as a lecturer, which is why I gave up my privilege retirement to be clear.


So, well, they took me out of the speech. I've been out of the speech for a while. But hey, nothing, I'll continue. What it seems to me is the issue of the intellectual dishonesty of our colleagues, and one has to understand the characteristics of who makes the decisions as well. A stabilization program basically has three parts: it has a fiscal policy, an adjustment policy, it has a monetary policy and an exchange rate policy. Obviously, as a result of being brainwashed for more than 100 years with socialist and dirigiste policies, they believe that there have to be sectoral things, that prices must be controlled, that the dynamics of such a price must be managed, that it must be controlled the other. Guys, I'm a libertarian liberal, I'm not going to do that kind of shit. I believe in freedom, I do not believe that politicians are gods.


What's more, another thing that also seems deeply intellectually dishonest to me, because apart from that, it's not that it goes down... "oh, inflation magically goes down", there is a program that is what makes inflation go down. And in that sense it surprises me because if one has the evidence, one should at least be more sincere. But we are also doing it in a context where we are recomposing relative prices. Therefore, when you want to look at inflation, ok, you don't like to look at the wholesalers because it proves that they were wrong and that things are working much better than they expected. Ok, I get it, but when you're going to look at inflation, I say the most intellectually honest thing would be to look at the core. But no, it doesn't matter, let them continue denying the achievements, obviously they don't see it. So, it seems to me that we should be looking at the core. Anyway, you know what? No problem, because not only are we going to be beating the core but we are also going to beat the general team. We are going to crush inflation.

And, as if this were not enough, we have governed these first six months of the year uphill, managing the worst inheritance in history and without the Legislative Power or the instruments that all governments before ours have had. This is not a minor issue. It's not that politics didn't accompany us. Politics, since before taking office, has put a spanner in the works for us. They put a spanner in the works for us by breaking up the Central Bank's balance sheet. And they put a spanner in the works for us every day we try to govern. But you know what? All this is proving that the ideas of freedom are stronger, because despite the political filthy caste, we are achieving it. We are beating inflation. But the country needs profound changes, basic economic reforms that exceed the immediate economic policy decisions that a president can make. And today, while the most ambitious economic, social, tax and fiscal reform project since the return of Democracy is being discussed in the nation's Senate, there can be no doubt that Argentina is facing a turning point. We can insist on the path that brought us here, insist on the model of the present state, but that is really only present for some and plunges the rest into misery. We can insist on the model of runaway spending, of the productive interior drained and outraged by politics from Buenos Aires, of the suffocating tax pressure, of the debt, of the monetary issue, of the discouragement of economic activity and of the bureaucracy that hinders everything. . Or alternatively we can return to the path to freedom from which we should never have strayed: return to the ideas and values ​​that once made Argentina a world power, return to the defense of life, freedom and private property. And aspire to be a country that lives up to our identity and our history once again.


The bad thing is that we have lost a lot of time. We wasted a century's time. For 100 years we have squandered the stock of resources, wealth and advantages that our golden age bequeathed us. We squander it in the service of nothingness, in the service of chimeras. We went from being a power to being a country with mediocre results. Although our town is not mediocre, it is exceptional. The model of social justice and the present State tied the hands and plunged an exceptional people into misery and unfortunately we will never be able to recover this time. The good thing is that Argentine society, for the first time in years, mobilized to demand a shift in a radically different direction. He elected as president someone who in the campaign assumed and dared to tell truths that any other politician would have modestly hidden. Society chose the path of freedom, knowing all the costs and sacrifices that this entailed in the short term and chose it with the largest number of individual votes in the history of Argentine democracy. However, for some politicians the popular mandate of nearly 15 million Argentines meant nothing. Because their priority is not the society that loudly demands a change, it is not the country that needs to be redirected to prosper, but rather their personal and base interest of the political caste that resists making reforms because they know that if they are made This will work and it won't come back again.

That is why, 6 months after taking over our government, they are still doing everything possible to prevent our program from prospering. Over the 100 years that we have already lost, they make us continue to waste time, because they know that our program puts at risk the unjust system from which they feed. It is not the first time I say this: the history of the last 100 years of our country allows a glimpse, a small window into what could happen to the rest of the free world if it lets its guard down and allows itself to be seduced by socialism. Because they are the same ideas that are in vogue today among the elites of the West that in Argentina destroyed freedom and condemned us to poverty. Ideas that possibly in some cases come from a noble cause, which is to provide assistance to the weakest or those who have the least. But it has a vice at its root, which is state intervention as an instrument to impart social justice. They have to understand that charity is good, but if it is done with their own pocket, as Rothbard said: it is incredible how infinitely charitable people can be, when the pocket that pays is someone else's.


In this context, the State is neither within its rights nor capable of imparting justice through the distribution of wealth, because social justice is a wrong concept at a moral level, at a theoretical level and at an empirical level. On the moral level because every act of distribution involves the act of prior coercion, which is confiscating a private person's property that is his by natural right. Which means that the State is a criminal and violent organization, as it is financed with a coercive source of income called taxes. On a theoretical level, because by definition the greater the state intervention, the less free the markets are and the worse they function, producing misery instead of wealth. As Hayek said “every time the State intervenes it generates a worse result than if it had not interfered.” Because? Because state intervention introduces distortions in the price system, prevents correct economic calculation and, consequently, annuls what Hayek called “the correct functioning of the market as a discovery process.” That is, in the constant search to compete in the market, the capitalist finds the right direction. But this can only occur in a system of free prices that better extract and transmit information about the quantities of what good or what services are demanded and at what price. Collectivism, by inhibiting this process of discovery and making it difficult to appropriate what is discovered, ties the entrepreneur's hands and makes it impossible for him to produce better goods and offer better services at a better price.

And finally, as if all this were not enough, there is also empirical evidence of the inferiority of socialism. If we look at the indices of economic freedom, the freest countries have a GDP per capita 12 times larger than the repressed ones. And even the inhabitants of the lowest decile of the free system live better than 90% of the population of repressed countries. In other words, free enterprise capitalism is superior to socialism even in the main task that socialism is presumed to do best, which is helping those left behind. What is at the base of all this is that there is a direct and proven relationship between repression and misery, on the one hand; and on the contrary there is a proven relationship between freedom and prosperity. And socialist ideas are fundamentally incompatible with prosperity, precisely because they are incompatible with freedom. The annulment of competition is incompatible with the defense of merit and effort; bureaucratic control is incompatible with creativity and innovation; directed distribution is incompatible with the generation of wealth; And deep down, a large state with broad powers that gets involved in each of the people's private affairs is incompatible with having a free, creative and thriving society that can generate wealth for itself and for future generations.


Today it seems that Argentina and much of the free world are turning in opposite directions. While some Western powers forget the basic rules that brought the prosperity they enjoyed in recent decades, Argentina is reunited with those ideas and values ​​and is once again betting on the model of Freedom. While developed countries become heavy with regulations, with unjustified impositions, we remove the regulations that have tied our people's hands for decades and invite the capitals of the world to cooperate with Argentina; because we understand free economic activity as the most natural act of cooperation that the human species has. That is, in Argentina we are rediscovering the ideas that made the modern West the greatest feat of civilization and economic development in human history. And we want to be a refuge for those who defend and live these ideas throughout the planet. There has always been a struggle between those who innovate and those who regulate; between those who generate and those who confiscate; between those who explore the territory and those who then draw the maps and draw the boundaries. There has always been and will be a bid between the private sector and the state. Today in the technology sector, which is the most dynamic sector of the global economy, that struggle is palpable. The great visionaries of the sector flee from the regulations that the global political leadership infected with socialism seeks to impose on them. I tell you today what I have already said to these actors in person: this Argentina is on the side of the private sector, not the State; He is on the side of those who work, of those who trade, of those who make an effort, he is on the side of those who risk, invest, innovate.

As I said, he is on the side of those who risk, invest and innovate, who are by nature social benefactors and he will defend tooth and nail the ideas of freedom, because we know that they contain the formula for prosperity. But it's not just about having the right ideas, we also have to have material conditions that accompany us. Because after decades of stagnation, Argentina has everything in place to undertake a process of economic convergence that will place us on par with the great powers of the world in a few decades. Ultimately, the question: What is the convergence process? Here it is also worth making a methodological note about what we economists do, right? Because convergence is something that when you look at the history of humanity, those who embrace the ideas of freedom achieve it, but our growth models are simplified behind certain formats of the production function. And in reality we don't even have the basis for why it ends up converging. Basically, it arises depending on the concavity of the production function and how far we are from the equilibrium of the per capita capital stock of the stationary state. In short, all we are talking about is a mathematical relationship and it is empty of content. Convergence does not just happen, because then if not every country that was lagging behind, without a doubt, could grow without doing anything and that is false.


That is why I emphasize so much in two works: in the work of Hayek and in the work of Locke, which is synthesized by Israel Kirzner: this idea of ​​the market as a process of discovery and Locke's principle of appropriation, in a context where they are respected. property rights. If you do that, convergence will happen, because there are a lot of things that had to be discovered and others have already discovered them. And that is why throughout the history of humanity it takes fewer and fewer years to double GDP per capita: the first to achieve this was England, which took 58 years, but the last to do so was China and it did so in 7 years. What's more, in 14 years it multiplied its GDP per capita by four, because it doubled it once and doubled it again and it did so based on the impulse of the areas released to the market. So it is not that convergence is something that is going to occur tautologically, due to the form of the production function, which also has no empirical counterpart. Because the empirical counterpart is increasing returns, not decreasing marginal returns.”

And there, the key is precisely that what is in the background and what is in the background are the ideas of freedom. In some of the films that I saw from this conference, for example, I showed the relationship between the GDP per capita between free and repressed countries. What's more, not only that, free countries grow more than twice as much as repressed ones. So, the key lies there, in the institutional framework that allows convergence. And if you add to that the improvements that we are seeing in technological terms, especially with artificial intelligence, this convergence can be accelerated. So, Argentina has today, if our reform succeeds, the opportunity to begin this process of convergence to achieve living standards similar to the most developed countries on Earth. More or less to give you an idea, the largest structural reform that was carried out in Argentina in history was that of Menem, in the 90s. The reform that we are sending in the Base Law is five times larger than that. . And if you add the DNU, which is still standing, we are making structural reforms eight times larger than what was the largest reform in Argentine history. And then the cheeky ones come to say that there is no plan.


What's more, if this first phase succeeds, we would climb 90 places in economic freedom and we would begin to look like countries like Germany, like France, like Italy. But that's not enough for me. One might think of Ireland, except what it is doing at the moment. I mean, what made it the most miserable country in Europe with the pro-market reforms is that today it has a per capita order 50% higher than that of the United States, and that could be a model. It also falls short of our ambitions. We still have 3,200 pending structural reforms. We are going to carry them out whether politics wants it or not. And we are going to make Argentina the freest country in the world. And then there are the issues of the current situation as well.

Because for decades we have been a boiling pressure cooker with the lid closed, the only thing we have to do is uncover it and resume the task of the market as a discovery process. Where the low capitalization of the economy, the result of 20 years of populism determined to destroy capital, generates enormous investment opportunities for those who bet on the country. Thus, by reducing the deficit, reducing the tax burden on economic activity, strictly defending property rights, we will achieve development that will stop being a dream and become a reality. But not only that we make the right decisions in terms of economic freedom and respect for property rights, we can converge in a relatively short term to levels of wealth enjoyed by the main powers in the world today, but economic convergence for us It is simplified, because we do not have to go through this laborious process of discovery that Hayek talked about, since others have done it for us, which was what he was explaining about the foundations of convergence.


There is nothing to invent to reach the levels of wealth of the main countries in the world. We only have to generate the conditions of respect for private property so that actors in the private world can take the knowledge of those who have already carried out the process of economic discovery and reproduce it. This facilitates the process of wealth generation and economic growth. That is, they have already done the work for us. The arduous process of discovery in which an actor finds a need and develops a product or service to satisfy it has already occurred and occurs every day where property rights are respected. Because without appropriation there is no discovery process possible. That is why socialism failed and will always fail. Because it inhibits the process of appropriation of what is discovered, destroying innovation and, consequently, the generation of wealth. For this reason, due to the fact that the private sector learns from the discovery process of third parties, economic growth at a global level has been accelerating for more than 100 years and is increasingly accelerating. If we add to this the technological tools we have today, such as artificial intelligence, the process of economic convergence to reach the living standards of developed countries may even be much shorter than we think. All this implies that, in a single generation, Argentina could go from being a poor country to one of the most important countries in the world. All we need is to re-embrace the ideas of freedom, defend life and defend property.

So, I want to return to something that I expressed in recent weeks before the most powerful businessmen in the world, in the technological sectors that are the frontiers of economic activity. Argentina was once a land of promise, which captured the imagination of adventurers and entrepreneurs because everything was yet to be done, because they knew that they could put in their effort and capital and it would do well, because there was a State that protected property rights. and protected freedom of association between private individuals. Today we have everything to retrace that path and become the new mecca of the West. We have the natural resources that the world needs, ready to be used. We have the best human capital in the region, curious and trained to face the challenges of the present. And for the first time in 150 years, we become a freer country every day. With these conditions we have the opportunity to be at the forefront of technological and energy development, as we already are in the agricultural sector. For example, we can be a global development hub in Artificial Intelligence, which is a highly demanding and high-paying market, which will facilitate a leap in productivity in an immense number of value chains in the economy and which will also allow reform the state so that it works better and stops wasting taxpayer resources. You already know that as the economy grows, I will keep spending down. So that? To return the money to those who genuinely and originally generated it: the private sector.

In this sense, we have the obligation to take advantage of this opportunity. We owe it to the good Argentines to show them that their effort is for something, that work and sacrifice correspond to an improvement in their quality of life. I want to remind Argentines what we forgot after accumulating failure after failure but that the rest of the world knew during the last 100 years: that economic freedom brings prosperity and brings prosperity for all, not just for some. For all this, returning to my initial idea, today as a society, as a country and as a political leadership we are facing a bifurcation: either we persist on the path of decadence or we dare to travel the path of Freedom. That battle is even taking place in the street. Fortunately, we have a great Minister of Security and she is putting the streets in order, as we promised during the campaign.

Society has already chosen which of the two paths are open and wants to undertake. You have already taken the risk that comes with choosing freedom. And, from the presidency, we are embarking on that path with the tools we have. Now it is the turn of the rest of politics to decide if it accompanies or turns its back on the popular mandate to live in a freer country with a more dynamic economy, or if it insists on persisting on the path of servitude, condemning us everyone to misery. There is still time to work together and demonstrate to society that the political leadership can live up to its demands. We have no other ambition than to generate the material and spiritual conditions so that Argentina can once again be a prosperous country. We are not interested in political power as an end in itself, we are not interested in gaining anything personally.

We are here willing to leave everything at the service of our cause, even if it costs us our own personal well-being. If we manage to generate the stability necessary to reactivate economic activity, if we manage to make way for freedom, if we manage to remove the State what is necessary so that society can flourish, we will have been successful. Because free economic activity will result in benefits for the common people of society. If we achieve this, it will not be a triumph for us, but for society as a whole, which will have managed to leave behind 100 years of statism and decadence. Therefore, as we travel the path to that new Argentina, I thank all of you for being here. God bless the Argentines and may the force of heaven be with us! Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it! Long live freedom, damn it!
