End of the year message from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, to the Argentine people

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50267-mensaje-de-fin-de-ano-del-presidente-de-la-nacion-javier-milei-al-pueblo-argentino

Saturday December 30, 2023

End of the year message from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, to the Argentine people

Just before the New Year celebrations begin, I want to address all Argentinians to extend my greetings and share a brief message with you.
Tomorrow will mark the first three weeks since we assumed leadership of the Nation. Since December 10, we have designed a stabilization shock plan; we have shrunk the State; We have implemented a new public order doctrine and have promoted more than 500 reforms, among many other initiatives. Some have been struck by the quantity and speed of the measures we have adopted. The truth is that they were necessary to try to mitigate the effects of the worst inheritance in history.

These are the first steps to turn the page and leave behind - once and for all - the caste economic model, which has plunged Argentines into misery for more than 100 years. The root change - with respect to this impoverishing model - is a non-negotiable commitment, which I assumed with all Argentines. However, the inherited problem is too deep, since we are talking about an economy with a 15-point consolidated deficit; with a monetary issue of 20 points of GDP, in the last four years; with artificially depressed prices - in energy and transport - by up to 1/5 of their real value; with a Central Bank without reserves and with inflation that, in recent weeks, reached 1.2% daily, which - annualized - would imply around 7,500% annually.

A legacy that condemns half of Argentines to poverty and - in particular - hitting seven out of ten of our children. This is an initial situation worse than that of 2001-2002, which was the worst crisis in our history. Therefore, we are facing a national emergency situation, which requires us to act immediately and forcefully with the greatest number of instruments possible, which far exceed the resources we have used in these first weeks.

I want to be clear on this: unless we do what is necessary - now - we are headed for an economic catastrophe, of a magnitude unknown to any living Argentinian.
For this reason, we have sent to the National Congress a bill that may well determine the destiny of our country, with the conviction that it will be approved in the coming weeks. We have called it Bases and Starting Points for the Freedom of Argentines, in reference to Juan Bautista Alberdi, the intellectual author of our first Constitution. With his ideas as a lighthouse, he carried out the country project that - between the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century - made Argentina the richest country in the world. This law provides the Executive with the necessary powers to act in the face of this emergency situation and avoid the economic catastrophe, in addition to promoting profound reforms in commercial, tax, productive, social, security, educational and all levels of government.

The spirit of the law is to once again be a free country, with a limited State, which acts in defense of the life, liberty and property of Argentines; a country where public order is respected; a country, where politics does not use citizens, but is at the service of them, where everyone is free to work, produce, employ, trade, import and export as they consider best, not as a bureaucrat dictates, from a government office. Who can prefer today's devastated country over the prosperous country that we propose?

In a few weeks, when the moment of truth arrives, the Deputies and Senators of the Nation will find themselves faced with two options: they will be able to reject the law and continue with the model, which for 100 years has impoverished us, or they will be able to approve the law to make a profound change and embrace – again – the ideas of freedom.

Over the last year I have established a code of honor with Argentines: it is better to tell an uncomfortable truth than a comfortable lie. And even though I did not promise them a path full of roses, but rather one of effort and sacrifice, the vast majority of Argentines reciprocated their vote. I am going to insist with a hard truth that I have said many times: due to the irresponsible decisions taken by the last governments, next year will be hard for all of us, but the other certainty I have is that - if our program is obstructed by the same as always, who do not want anything to change - we will not have the instruments to prevent this crisis from becoming a social catastrophe of biblical proportions. Avoiding that catastrophic future - to which they led us - depends on everyone; It is up to us, in the government, to work every day to protect Argentines as we have been doing; It depends on the union and social leaders, who will face the historical responsibility of choosing between the general well-being or the preservation of their personal interests; It depends on the Deputies and Senators, who will be giving the debate in Congress, and who will have to choose if they want to be part of the solution or if they want to continue being part of the problem. And it also depends on good Argentines, who see that we are facing a turning point in our history, and have faith that - as a Nation - we will be able to move forward.

That is why I invite all good Argentines to demand that their representatives approve this law, because the Homeland needs it. If all political, social, union and business actors in the country understand the historical moment we are experiencing and support our program, I am sure that there will be light at the end of the road.

In essence, our reforms would imply levels of economic freedom that - in a period of 45 years - would allow us to aspire to multiply our GDP per capita by ten times, reaching levels similar to those of Ireland, which today is 50% above the of the United States.

Finally, I want to once again wish all Argentinians a happy new year. I hope you can spend it in the company of your family and loved ones. This may be the year we turn around a century of failure; This may be the year in which we leave behind the collectivist model, which made us poor, and embrace - again - the model of freedom, which made us the richest country in the world.

My wish - for this New Year - is that the political leadership abandons its ideological blinders and personal interests and rises to the occasion to be able to advance quickly in the changes that the country needs.

Finally, may God bless the Argentines and may the Force of Heaven be with us. Thank you so much.
