Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, when inaugurating the 142nd period of ordinary sessions of the Legislative Assembly, from the Congress of the Nation

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50380-el-presidente-inaugura-el-142-periodo-de-sesiones-ordinarias-del-congreso

Friday, March 1, 2024

Words from the President of the Nation, Javier Milei, when inaugurating the 142nd period of ordinary sessions of the Legislative Assembly, from the Congress of the Nation

Deputies and Senators of the National Congress; Governors, ministers of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation; ambassadors and those who accompany us, today, in this venue: we meet, here - as established by the National Constitution - to communicate the state of our Nation to all the Argentine people, who are looking at us throughout the entire country .

Today marks exactly 83 days since we assumed the challenge of leading the Nation, in what is possibly the most critical economic moment in its history. After more than a hundred years of insisting on an impoverishing model and having almost forgotten complete the ideas that made our country great, the last 20 years have been, particularly, an economic disaster; an orgy of public spending; uncontrolled emission, which resulted in the worst inheritance that any government in Argentine history has ever received.

In fact, the twin deficits, which we inherited, reached 17 percentage points of GDP. Many of the economic data of the inheritance that we received are public, from day 1 when we took command of the country: 5 points of the Product of fiscal deficit in the Treasury and 10 points of quasi-fiscal deficit, generated by the Central Bank, adding a total of 15 points of consolidated deficit. Also a huge debt with importers and multilateral credit organizations, which left us on the verge of default; negative net reserves, in the Central Bank for 11.2 billion dollars; repressed transportation and energy prices, in some cases, up to a fifth of their real value and the dollar with a 200 percent gap between the official and the parallel; an unrestrained emission, in the last years of government, for 13 points of GDP, added to the more than 15 points of GDP, which had been issued, during the first three years of government.

In turn, during the first week of December, retail inflation ran at a rate of 3,700 percent annually; During the second, it accelerated to 7,500 percent annually, while – for those who consider these numbers a fantasy – the inflation of 52 percent monthly, in wholesale, implied an annual inflation of 17,000 percent. They were numbers that fit perfectly with the monetary surplus and the issuance potential, derived from the remunerated liabilities of the BCRA. I understand that some politicians add with difficulty, unless it is their own. So asking them to compute a geometric growth function is an oxymoron for those who haven't seen it, don't see it, and won't see it.

None of all this is new, however the disaster does not end there, because as we audit the national public administration, and as some lingering symptoms of the economic chaos that they left us materialize, we begin to know in greater depth the size of the crisis that we inherited, a crisis that is present in all dimensions of the life of society. Perhaps the starkest indicator of the inheritance that we have received was recently learned, when the data was made public that nearly 60 percent of Argentines are below the poverty line. However, for some it seems that poverty has appeared overnight. I tell you that the real salary results from the marginal productivity of work and that it is given by the accumulation of capital. For this reason, the much-mentioned phrase: “fighting capital” threatens investment, reduces the capital stock per inhabitant and, as a consequence, real wages.

This madness to which populism has led us has caused the average salary – in dollars – at the parallel exchange rate, because the current price is 300 dollars, when in the 90s it had reached 1800 dollars, which, thought of in coins, today, would be 3,000 dollars. That is: populism took away 90 percent of our income, reaching such a level of madness, where a third of formal workers are poor. This is a heartbreaking fact, which crudely reveals the brutality of the inheritance that we have received and the havoc that the famous model of the present State has produced.

From being the richest country in the world, when we embrace the ideas of freedom, to being a country where 6 out of 10 Argentines are poor, while the majority of politicians – like many of you – are rich.

To this tragedy of poverty, which has multiplied by 10, in the last 50 years, social debts and deep problems in all dimensions of Argentine life have been added as additional problems. A society with record numbers of destitution and that – at the same time – has never distributed so much social assistance in its history, as now, where - a good part of that assistance - functions as war booty for leftist organizations that steal money, who claim to defend and attack those who produce it. (APPLAUSE).

We are a society with a labor market, where the formal private sector is frozen, which, as a result of its rigidity and high labor costs, has not produced a single new job for 12 years, while public employment and informal work are the only ones that grow. And as if that were not enough, we have a broken pension system, which costs less income every day in proportion to its expenses and which – in the last 10 years – incorporated almost 4 million beneficiaries without contributions, through moratoriums that are a moral affront. for all those who fulfilled their responsibility throughout their lives.

The retirees, victims of this inheritance, continue tied to a formula, which we wanted to change, because it pulverizes their income, in a regime of high inflation due to the last government and that if it were not for the discretionary recomposition of the bonds, which we are carrying out going forward, would have resulted in a loss of up to 40 percent of their purchasing power. In fact, the recurrent use of compensatory bonuses is a clear example of how poorly designed the formula is and that it requires urgent modification so that retirees are not victims of political misdeeds. (APPLAUSE).

In terms of security, we find a society abandoned to its fate, entire cities hostage to drug trafficking, the streets taken over by chaos and disorder, both generated by leftist organizations in their desire to constantly extort the different governments, a chaos that politics fueled, for the last 20 years for its own benefit. Faced with that, security forces mistreated and trampled by previous governments, who tied their hands and prevented them from doing their work, siding with criminals, exemplified in the absurdity of releasing prisoners, during the pandemic. (APPLAUSE).

With regard to education, a crisis that has been going on for decades, that is increasingly deeper and that has resulted in the fact that, today, half of the children in third grade do not understand what they are reading, in Argentina and the 70 percent cannot solve a basic mathematics problem. This is the reality of a country with the most Nobel Prize winners in the region, which knew how to be – in its past – a beacon of quality in education. Incipient illiteracy is to our education what inflation is to our economy.

At the level of Higher Education, the creation of universities has become just another political business and in professorships and teacher training institutes, left-wing, openly anti-capitalist and anti-liberal educational curricula proliferate, in a country in which what What is needed is more capitalism and more freedom. (APPLAUSE).
In terms of health, there is a system pushed towards a shortage crisis, caused by the irresponsible trade policy of the previous government, which left doctors, patients and families without stock of medical supplies of all kinds and – in particular – special medications. such as oncology. All this in the middle of the farce of “The State takes care of you”, during the pandemic, where if we had done things like a non-mediocre country we would have had 30,000 deaths, really, while we had 130,000 with enormous pain, that means. (APPLAUSE).

That is: they sold us the idea that the State works as insurance, but, in real life, when the incident occurs it defaults. In technical terms, this happens when they steal the bonus, as can be done inferiorly by a State that does everything very badly.

At the defense level, we inherited an Army that is underfunded and even discredited by the State itself, without the resources or preparation to face the challenges of a world in constant change and increasingly distant from peace. And as if that were not enough, this national debacle is leading us increasingly to irrelevance in the concert of nations, making us incapable of protecting our own territory and forcing us to drag ourselves before the most questioned countries in the world. (APPLAUSE).

This is the reality that they left us, who are by right in history one of the most important countries in the world. A country that, 120 years ago, had one of the 3 highest GDP per capita in the world and received immigrants from all corners of the planet. Behind all these evils we find an inoperative, broken National State that cannot even fulfill its basic functions, a State that does everything and does everything wrong, generating damage in every aspect of social life in which it interferes. . As Milton Friedman pointed out: “nothing good can be expected from the State.” According to the father of monetarism, there are four ways to spend: one can spend one's own money on oneself or on third parties, while the same can be done with the money of others. This is the best way to spend your own money on yourself, since you know what you want and how much it cost you to earn it. That is, profit is maximized. On the other hand, when you spend your own money on other people you minimize the cost; while when you spend other people's money on yourself you fall into waste. Therefore, it follows from this that there is no worse way to spend than spending other people's money on others, precisely what the State does. That is why the greater the State present, the greater the waste and the less well-being for good Argentines.

The Situation Report of the 114 agencies of the national public administration – carried out by SIGEN and the Secretariat of State Transformation – has provided alarming information, among which stands out a consolidated debt of nearly 3,000 million dollars in assets. and unpaid services, a State that not only does not control, but controls what it controls poorly, designed not to fulfill its basic functions, but to generate a kiosk in every place, wherever possible for the benefit of the bureaucrat on duty. Perhaps the case of insurance, which we have seen recently in the media, is the best example of this, since it was a system designed to generate an intermediary between the different State agencies in order to collect returns from each operation. ; a corrupt system that has generated hundreds of millions of dollars in returns, which ended up in the pockets of politicians. That is, perhaps, the best definition we can give of the situation in which we have found the State: a criminal organization, designed so that in each permit, in each regulation, in each procedure and in each operation there is a bribe for the politician on duty. (APPLAUSE).

This rotten scheme is extended to all powers of the State, both the Executive Branch, the Legislative Branch and the Judicial Branch and at all levels: national, provincial and municipal, supported by the media, which live off the official guidelines and trainers. of opinion, who look the other way or who carefully choose who to accuse and who not, also supported by prebendary businessmen, who support this model because, in return for paying a bribe, it is more tempting than the challenge of competing in the market, also by unionists who give away their workers, deceiving them with supposed benefits, while promoting a labor regime that only benefits them. (APPLAUSE). That is, a system that is absolutely morally bankrupt and intrinsically unjust; a system that can only generate poor people and at the cost of that produces a privileged caste, who live as if they were monarchs, which reaches obscene absurdities of impunity, like – for example – what we experienced this week, when we learned that a former Governor He put a citizen behind bars, without due process, for 50 days, merely for the crime of speaking ill of the crown in a private chat. He offends the silence of those who call themselves Republicans. (APPLAUSE). In case he wasn't heard by the applause: he offends the silence of those who call themselves republicans.

After having seen with my own eyes and in detail the vulgarity of the waste with which politics became accustomed to living, I confirm once again that it is not about incompetence. That a system that does so much harm to so many people is no coincidence, the disaster into which we have been plunged. It is a conscious and planned scheme, it is what I call “the caste model”. There is an intimate relationship between the privileges of politics and the discomfort of common Argentines. It is precisely the economic model of the present State, a regime of high public spending, fiscal deficit, debt and monetary emission. The system that the political caste uses to expropriate wealth from good Argentines and give it to their clients and friends. In this system, what is at the base of the deterioration is widespread in the last 100 years, the construction of a facade, a business protected by lies. This is the regrettable material and spiritual state of our Nation.

For many years we have denounced this model before society. And just over three months ago, after 100 years of gradual decline and more than a decade of free fall into misery, a silent majority raised its voice. That silent majority that is made up of those who work, those who produce, the rural laborers who get up at four in the morning, those who run a business, the self-employed, the informal worker, the young people who cannot find work and of the housewives who have the enormous task of educating our future generations.

A silent majority of those unprotected Argentine citizens, who were not invited to sit at the table of power, where the course of the country was always defined. That Argentina woke up, went to the polls and put in the Presidency a man who has recently arrived in political life, who leads a new political force, which may not have parliamentary majorities, nor mayors, nor governors, but who knows what he has to do. do, knows how to do it and has the conviction to do it.

A President who may not have the power of politics, but who has the power of conviction and the support of the millions of Argentines who want real change. Because as the sacred scriptures say in the book of Maccabees and which is commemorated on the festival of Hanukkah: “victory in war does not depend on the number of soldiers, but on the forces that come from heaven.”

35 years ago in his first speech about the state of the nation, President Carlos Saúl Menem said that “the courage of a people is not proven only on the battlefield or when facing misfortunes, but it is also proven by the amount of truths that he is capable of supporting.”

He was speaking to the Argentine people, in a context with some economic similarities to the current context, which urged them to make difficult decisions, similar to the ones I have to make today. During the electoral campaign we spoke to the Argentine people with the truth for the first time in decades and the people understood it, accepted it and elected us. Even though there were other candidates who promised the same old solutions, repeating the same conciliatory and deceptive speech as always, for the first time in a long time, society elected the candidate who preferred to tell an uncomfortable truth than a comfortable lie. We propose to society that the only way to avoid a worse economic catastrophe would be with a brutal and rapid adjustment of public spending. We also proposed to society that the correction of repressed prices and lagging inflation, as a result of the monetary issue, would generate months of very high inflation and also that cleaning up the shattered economy, which we inherited, would involve sacrifice and pain and it would take us a while to get out of the hole. . We signed an electoral contract of effort and sacrifice, because 100 years of decadence cannot be reversed overnight.

But at the same time, we assumed a commitment with the Argentines that the effort was going to be worth it, because doing so was going to allow us to meet two objectives: first, it would allow us to end inflation forever and advance structural reforms so that the Argentina will once again be a prosperous and thriving country; Second, it would allow us to end the political apartheid regime that has existed in Argentina for decades. A regime in which politicians and their friends are first-class citizens and good Argentines are second-class citizens.

Therefore, due to the mandate for change that the people gave us and with the endorsement of having told the truth and nothing but the truth in the campaign, during our first 82 days in office we have carried out the most ambitious government program of which have memory On the economic level, we begin by destroying the snake's egg: the fiscal deficit. We have made progress in the deepest reduction of public spending in our history, making a 5-point cut in GDP in just one month, we reduced the primary spending of the National State by 40% in real terms, where said result arose from eliminating the work public, reduce 98% of transfers to the provinces, reduce ministries by half, fire ghost public employees, eliminate social plans for people who did not need them, end poverty intermediaries and reduce the car fleet to a minimum , advisors and cell phones. That is to say, although there has been liquefaction, there has been much more chainsawing, all for politics.

In short, it is an adjustment that has been carried out mainly on the National Public sector and not as it has always been done, increasing taxes and placing all the weight on the private sector. As you may not have heard it said in the last 123 years, Argentina had a fiscal deficit in 112 of them. The fiscal deficit and the fight against high fiscal pressure are for us the mother of all battles, they are the cause of poverty and stagnation of the last 100 years. After decades of government that squandered the money of tax payers, Argentina once again has a government that will take care of each of the pesos that Argentines pay with work and sweat. Second: we avoided default with the IMF and other multilateral organizations in which we were going to fall 11 days after taking office. Third: we cut off the monetary issue, which is the only and proven cause of inflation. And through an ambitious financial program we are moving forward with the cleaning up of the Central Bank's balance sheet. In fact, since we came to government, we have bought close to 9 billion dollars in the market, where despite this issuance, the execution of puts against the BCRA and the payment of interest on remunerated liabilities, the contraction by BOPREAL and Due to fiscal adjustment, it has managed to keep the monetary base constant. That is, for the same monetary base in pesos, today we have 9,000 million additional reserves that cover more than 90% of it. Not only that, the monetary base that during the 21st century has been around 9% of GDP, today only represents 3%, while if you consider the broad version, something only feasible in a furious crisis of confidence, the same is in line with the historical average. For this reason, in the last month the price of the parallel dollar has collapsed, the gap with the import dollar corrected by Country tax has disappeared and dollar futures have aligned with the guidelines established by the BCRA, in a context in which which the price of bonds rises, Country risk falls and stocks fly through the roof, despite the attempts of some degenerate Prosecutors to sabotage the future of good Argentines.

Therefore, in this context, despite the fact that there are still some months of high inflation, it will continue to fall sharply and the exit from the stocks will be increasingly closer. Fourth: we have been able to solve the problem of importers' debt, which was a sword of Damocles of 42 billion dollars that hung over the heads of all Argentines. As a consequence of all these economic measures, we reached a surplus, both primary and financial, in our first month in office, which constitutes a global record in the history of modern capitalism. And as if that were not enough, we have taken all these measures solely with the resources of the Executive Branch, without support of any kind from the rest of the political arc, with honorable exceptions.

But our work is not limited only to economics. In security we have inaugurated a new doctrine of public order that no one dared to implement, even though it was unequivocally the only correct path. First, we began to enforce the law without exceptions. For this reason, we free the street from the scourge of constant strikes through our public order protocol. In each and every one of the demonstrations that were called in these almost three months of government, and that began immediately as soon as we took office, breaking a record in democratic history, in all of them we maintained order and avoided the indiscriminate blocking of streets, through a controlled deployment of security forces.

In addition, we are notifying the organizations that call for demonstrations to bear the cost of police operations. Second, we care for the victims and those who care for us. The vile culture of despising law enforcement and crime victims and glorifying criminals is over with us. For this reason, we are promoting an expansion of the framework of legitimate defense and compliance with duty, so that citizens who protect themselves or police officers who protect citizens do not end up behind bars, while criminals walk freely through our streets. .

Third: we are ruthless in the fight against organized crime. For this reason, through Operation Bandera, we deployed new members of the federal forces in Rosario. And thanks to prevention work, intentional homicide on public roads in areas controlled by federal forces was reduced by almost 60% in these two months. That's why we also created a special management system for high-risk inmates in our prison system. From now on, they will be controlled by an elite group to prevent them from continuing to commit crimes since the confinement, a practice that unfortunately has become commonplace in recent times.

Regarding social assistance, we committed to ending once and for all the business of poverty managers, who use the intermediation of plans as a collection mechanism and as an extortionate resource to manipulate those who have the least. For this reason, we carried out an audit process of social plans that showed, as we suspected, that at least 52,000 Empower Work plans were improperly assigned to beneficiaries who did not meet the conditions. VIP planners who were paid fraudulently without needing it, many of them while traveling by plane abroad, many with spurious connections in politics, many public employees and whose elimination from the registry resulted in an annual saving of 43,000 million pesos.

That is why we also implemented line 134 of the Ministry of Security, which helped us expose the perverse mechanism that the picketing organizations use to bring people against their will to the demonstrations, under threat of taking away their plan. We received nearly 80 thousand calls that resulted in more than 1,300 judicialized complaints, and we discovered - thanks to this complaint system - the darkest side of this phenomenon. A political gang, in Chaco, that sexually exploited women and arbitrated their social plans. (APPLAUSE).

We are ending the extortion of social organizations towards the beneficiaries, and thanks to the security protocol - implemented by Minister Bullrich - we are also ending the daily extortion that social organizations impose on society every time they cut a street. We always said it, in our Government “he who cuts, does not get paid.” (APPLAUSE).

But we have the vocation to protect as much as possible the victims of the impoverishing system, which we are trying to change. No Argentine is to blame for the fact that the ineffectiveness and greed of politicians have destroyed their income, much less the most vulnerable. That is why we decided to end the assistance intermediation system and strengthen direct assistance mechanisms. Along these lines, we have doubled the amounts of the Universal Child Allowance, the Pregnancy Allowance and the Alimentar card. We have also made receiving social assistance compatible with having a salary of up to 1 million pesos, so that those who receive a social plan can eventually reintegrate into the world of work. We also absorbed functions that were carried out in an unaudited manner, without registration and are controlled by social organizations such as food delivery. Now we know exactly what happens with each bag of food that is distributed. (APPLAUSE).

In educational matters, we multiplied school aid by 4 so that families who were affected by drastic increases - in this new start of classes - can buy the school supplies and materials that their children need. This measure will benefit the families of 7,300,000 children, from initial to secondary level. (APPLAUSE).

In an Argentina where children do not know how to read and write, we can no longer allow Baradel and his friends to use students as hostages to negotiate joint agreements with provincial governments. (APPLAUSE). That is why we included education as an essential service in the Decree of Necessity and Urgency, which will take the weapon out of the unions' hands and force them to provide at least 70 percent of educational services during any strike. (APPLAUSE).

We always said that we gave the vote to the people not to give us power, but to give it to the Argentines. This crusade begins by reducing the size of the State to its minimum and indispensable level and purging it of privileges for politicians and their friends. That is why we went from 18 to 8 Ministries, and from 106 to 54 secretariats, reducing hierarchical public positions by more than 50 percent. That's a chainsaw. (APPLAUSE).

That is why we also canceled official advertising in the media for one year. Which will result in savings of more than 100 million pesos, if we take as parameters what was spent last year. It is immoral that in a poor country - like ours - governments spend people's money to buy the will of journalists. (APPLAUSE). In addition, we eliminated government agencies such as INADI, which in addition to fulfilling the role of thought police, had an annual budget of 2,800,000 million pesos to maintain subtracted militants. (APPLAUSE).

Along these same lines, we are going to close the Télam Agency, which has been used, during the last decades, as a Kirchnerist propaganda agency. (APPLAUSE). We reduced discretionary transfers to the provinces to a minimum. Resources that historically were used as currency to buy political support. To give you an idea of ​​what it is about, we update it to today's value: last year the National State spent 5.4 billion pesos on discretionary transfers to the provinces.

Both I and my officials travel on commercial flights and not on private planes as politicians who have a lax conception of what a medical plane is used to do. (APPLAUSE). That is why in the coming days the National Civil Aviation Administration will establish a new regulatory criterion so that no politician or family members of politicians can use private planes, except for strictly official matters. (APPLAUSE). Also since March 1, no official who travels with a ticket paid for by a public body can accumulate miles for personal trips, a meaningless privilege that perfectly illustrates the caste model. (APPLAUSE).

We also ended with the festival of official vehicles, which anyone used for anything, as if a human resources director needed a driver. All ministries have complied with the mandate to seize at least 30 percent of their fleet. We also eliminated SIRAS and non-automatic essence for imports. (APPLAUSE). In such a way that we have put an end to discretion and cronyism. Now anyone who wants to import can do so without asking anyone, the era of bribes in exchange for import permits is over. (APPLAUSE).

Finally, we also signed a mega Decree of Necessity and Urgency to..., for the first time in a decade, return freedom to Argentines instead of curtailing it. Included in that decree were 366 articles that eliminate or modify regulations that hindered the economy, complicated people's lives to protect some privilege, or aggravated the problems they were intended to solve. Among these things I want to highlight, we free the choice of social works so that workers are no longer prisoners of the union and its activity, and can choose which service provider they prefer. (APPLAUSE).

We repealed the disastrous rental law and exactly what we said happened, the supply of goods on the market doubled from December to February; Consequently, the value in real terms of the rentals is low. We also repealed the disastrous supply law, which was a tool that politicians used to extort companies, and we prohibited the power of politics to prohibit exports. We modernized labor legislation to facilitate the hiring of registered employment, something that was fought by the unions. (APPLAUSE).

However, all these first achievements represent only the surface of the great changes that we have come to implement in Argentina. To further our mission to end the privileges of politics and its friends, we are sending Congress a package of anti-caste laws; of which I want to share with you some of its components. (APPLAUSE).

We will eliminate privilege retirements for presidents and vice presidents. (APPLAUSE). We will force the unions to elect their authorities through periodic, free elections supervised by the Electoral Justice; which will limit the terms of these authorities to four years, will establish a limit of only one possible re-election. (APPLAUSE). The specific collective agreements made in free association by the workers of a company or group of companies will take precedence over the collective agreements of the sector. We are going to put an end to this madness of imposing on people the working conditions that a man who has not worked for 30 years defines from behind a desk. (APPLAUSE).

People convicted of corruption, in the second instance, will not be able to run as candidates in national elections. (APPLAUSE). Furthermore, any former public official with a final conviction, in the second instance, for corruption crimes will automatically lose any benefit he or she has for having been an official. (APPLAUSE). We will drastically reduce the number of contracts for advisors to the deputies and senators of the Nation. It has been a common practice in politics for the representatives of the people to set up SMEs with 30-40 advisors each, squandering the resources of Argentines. (APPLAUSE). The day will be deducted from the salary of State employees who are not going to work due to unemployment. (APPLAUSE). And in turn, we will eliminate public financing of political parties, each party will have to finance itself with voluntary contributions from (INAUDIBLE) its own members.

All serious economists in the world - except for some lapdogs in Argentine politics - agree that financing the treasury with money issued by the Central Bank generates inflation. This is not debatable, financing the treasury with issuance is simply wrong, technically and morally wrong. This is so because it generates inflation and because it liquefies the purchasing capacity of all Argentines, and for what? to put money in the hands of politics, who do not use it for anything other than their personal benefit.

However, in Argentina, we have done it again and again, and as a result we are one of the countries that has had the most inflation in modern history. It's over with us, we are going to send a project to Congress to penalize by law the president of the Nation, the Minister of Economy, the officials of the Central Bank and the deputies and senators who approve a budget that contemplates financing fiscal deficit with monetary emission to end once and for all and forever in these morally unsustainable and criminal practices. (APPLAUSE). And we will also propose that said crime be at the level of a crime against humanity, in such a way that it is imprescriptible so that sooner or later they pay the cost of their actions. (APPLAUSE).

These are just some of the reforms we are going to implement. We will advance, whether through bills, decrees or modifying regulations, in the most ambitious economic regulation process in our history, because if we do not change this economic model at its roots, Argentina has no future. (APPLAUSE). However, all these measures that we have implemented as well as the reform projects that we have promoted have been received with suspicion and distrust by a good part of the Argentine political leadership, if not with open rejection.

What happened with the labor chapter of the DNU and with the law of “Bases and Starting Point for the Freedom of Argentines”, which reflected some of the changes we want to advance, fully demonstrates this point. A law that aims to re-embrace the model of Freedom inspired by the ideas of Alberdi of the generation of '37 that comes to free the productive forces of Argentines, to return freedoms, to end privileges and businesses of the caste, She was manipulated and rejected by a part of the political class that resists change. Because we should not deceive ourselves, there is an important sector in the political leadership that does not want to abandon the privileges of the old regime.

We saw them in the violent demonstrations in front of Congress, in the statements of union members who refuse to understand that the Argentina of privileges is over, in the actions of deputies who asked for the vote supporting the change, but who tried to betray their mandate while no one saw. We also saw it in the reappearance of the riders of failure such as Sergio Massa, Pablo Moyano, Juan Grabois and Máximo Kirchner. (APPLAUSE). Even with the reappearance of the former president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who has been responsible for one of the worst governments in history. But we also saw it with journalists, who, faced with the decision to end the official guidelines, have decided to go out and defend their privileges in a blatant manner, falling into crimes of slander and insults and lying in a depraved manner.

We also saw it in governors who only care about securing the cash to be able to continue with the party of public spending, the official guideline, artist recitals with high cachet and dubious quality, private planes and so many other vices to which we Politicians have been used to it for decades. Evidently there are many actors in the country's political and economic establishment who do not want to leave behind the Argentina of failure; some out of fear of change, others because they are the beneficiaries of this old regime. It is important for society to understand that it was the resistance of a large part of politics to give up their privileges that boycotted the law, as was evident when there were 142 votes rejecting the article eliminating trust funds.

During the entire negotiation process for the sanction of the law, a sector of the political class was revealed that does not understand the historical moment, nor why the people elected us. We did not come to play the mediocre game of politics, we did not come to lend ourselves to the usual give and take, to emulate those politicians who subordinate their projects to the exchange of favors, positions and businesses. We didn't come to do more of the same. We came to change the country seriously. Therefore, rather than approve a project emptied of content, we prefer to withdraw it. We did not negotiate change and we are going to fulfill the promise we made to society, with or without the support of the political leadership. We will do it with the tools that they can provide us or we will do it only with the legal resources of the Executive Branch, as we have been doing until now. Because when we encounter an obstacle, we are not going to turn back, we are going to continue accelerating. (APPLAUSE).

Now, the reality is that today we are facing a turning point. The crisis that we have characterized is much deeper than simply material: it is a crisis of horizon because everything that we Argentines have tried, in the last 100 years, has failed. There are no more options: the logical conclusion is that the only possible alternative is to do something diametrically different or what has been done in the past. That's what we're trying to do: go back to the basics, back to the ideas that made this country great. However, we have encountered unwavering resistance to making any changes. We have found a willingness to build any reform. Any hint of change that implies a sacrifice for the political class has been rejected. Some because they do not understand the seriousness of the situation in which we find ourselves and cling to past traditions that have only produced failures and others who refuse to lose their privileges, their businesses or their comfort.

This leaves us facing two possible scenarios: the first is the path in which we are immersed, the path of confrontation, that of conflict. That is not the path we chose and we have demonstrated it, attempting to send an ambitious bill to this honorable house, with the expectation that it would be accompanied. Now, although we do not choose the path of confrontation, we do not escape it either. Because we know from the day we decided to get into politics, staying in this fight was not going to be easy. I want to tell you, however, that if you choose the confrontation path, you will encounter a very different animal than the one you are used to. Because unlike some of those who are here or those who look at us from their province, politics for us is not an end in itself. We do not live for politics, we do not live from politics, we have no ambition for power. Far from all that, the only thing we have is a thirst for change. (APPLAUSE).

We do not make decisions thinking about our political career. We came to fly the flags of freedom, fully aware that we were going to have to pay the costs of the obscene party that many of you held. Because what moves us is not power for power's sake, but our sacred cause: the defense of the life, liberty and private property of Argentines. (APPLAUSE). We do not seek or provoke confrontation, we do not want to discuss the past. We come to propose an agenda for the future, because as the saying goes "The Secret of change is to concentrate all your energy, not on fighting the old, but on building the new." (APPLAUSE).

We come to put our energy into building the new, but I want to tell everyone who is here and those who are watching us that if what you are looking for is conflict, you will have conflict. (APPLAUSE). Because unlike some of you, who are thinking about your next election or your own interests, we only think about defending the cause of Freedom, rebuilding our Nation and providing a future of prosperity for our children at any cost. (APPLAUSE). However, confrontation is not the path we want nor the one we choose; there is another possible path, a different path, a path of peace and not confrontation; a path of agreement and not conflict. Agreement yes no consensus against change. (APPLAUSE).

I must be honest in telling you that I don't have too much hope that they will take this path. I think corruption, meanness and selfishness are too widespread. But while I don't have too much hope, I haven't lost it either. What's more, I want you to prove me wrong, I want to challenge you to show that politics can be more than what it is, that we can aspire to be better, to show that despite our differences we can put the interests of the nation first. to miserable electoral interests. For this reason and with the desire to be wrong in my distrust of many of you, I want to take this opportunity to extend an invitation to you.

Today, in the first opening of sessions of our administration, I want to call on both governors and former presidents and leaders of the main political parties, to lay down our personal interests and meet next May 25, in the province of Córdoba, for the signing of a new social contract called the May Pact: a social contract that establishes the 10 principles of the new Argentine economic order. (APPLAUSE).

In this way, I hope that we can leave behind the antinomies of the past, abandon the recipes for failure and return - just as our founding fathers did more than 200 years ago - to once and forever embrace the ideas of freedom. The purpose of this May pact will be to establish the 10 State policies that the country needs to abandon the path of failure and begin to travel the path of prosperity.

Those 10 State policies are: one, the inviolability of private property. (APPLAUSE); two, the non-negotiable fiscal balance, (APPLAUSE); three, the reduction of public spending to historical levels of around 25% of GDP, (APPLAUSE); four, a tax reform that reduces tax pressure, simplifies the lives of Argentines and promotes trade, (APPLAUSE); five, rediscuss the Federal tax sharing and put an end forever to the current extortionate model, (APPLAUSE); six, a commitment by the provinces to advance the exploitation of the country's natural resources; seven, a modern labor reform that promotes formal work, (APPLAUSE); eight, a pension reform that gives sustainability to the system, respects those who contributed and contributes and allows those who prefer to subscribe to a private retirement system, (APPLAUSE); nine, a structural political reform that modifies the current system and realigns the interests of the representatives and those represented, (APPLAUSE); ten, and finally, the opening of international trade so that Argentina once again becomes a protagonist in the global market.

These 10 ideas, which are the bases of the progress of any nation, will be able to establish the conditions for Argentine growth for the next 100 years, so that once again Argentina will be a beacon of light for the West.

All politics is called to accompany us. We don't care who they are, where they come from, or what ideas they have defended. To show the government's commitment to moving in this direction, I have instructed the Chief of Staff, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of the Interior to, as a first step before signing the May Pact, convene the governors of all the provinces Argentines to the Casa Rosada to sign a pre-agreement and sanction both the “Bases” law and a fiscal relief package for the provinces. (APPLAUSE). Once both laws have been passed, as a sign of good will, we will be able to begin working on a common document based on these 10 principles outlined previously, so that on May 25 of this year, gathered in the Docta, we can begin a new era of glory for our country. (APPLAUSE).

This is the offer that we put on the table: it will be up to you and the rest of the Argentine leadership to know how to take advantage of the opportunity to change history; or on the contrary, intend to continue down this path of decadence, which they have brought us down. That day we will see who is sitting at the table working for the Argentines and who intends to continue down this path of servitude. I want to be clear about the nature of this call: our convictions are unalterable. We will put Argentina's fiscal accounts in order with or without the help of the rest of the political leadership. (APPLAUSE). But if the rest of the policy supports it, we will do it faster and better, with lower social costs and higher costs for those who live off this system. If the rest of the policy accompanies the reforms that we will implement, they will have a more lasting nature and consequently will generate greater security for local and foreign economic actors, which will result in accelerating economic growth, the fall of poverty and the improvement of well-being.

This historical moment is not for everyone, it is not for leaders who speculate politically, it is not for those who think that governing is a popularity contest, it is not for those who want to maintain their privileges, at the expense of a broken country and it is not for souls beautiful, for whom the shapes and commas in a text weigh more than the will to change. It is for statesmen or women, for patriots, for those who think about history, who are willing to risk everything for the benefit of the Nation, because fixing this country requires enormous sacrifices. (APPLAUSE).

We do not govern to be popular, the search for popularity is bad advice for a leader. It is this compass that pushed governments – in the last 20 years – to postpone measures, which, although difficult, were also necessary. We do not listen to those siren songs, we do not govern to be popular, neither today nor tomorrow; We govern for all Argentines, even for Argentines who have not yet been born so that one day, in 30 years, when Argentina is a world power, future generations will look back and say: “it was there, in 'La Docta'. ', in our beloved province of Córdoba, which began the path to prosperity." (APPLAUSE).

Therefore, we have a firm hand because we have a clear direction. For this reason, too, we accept to pay all the political costs to achieve these changes, including political costs that do not correspond to us. Because if the price of fixing this country is being ostracized, you will find me with pride there, because – for us – there is nothing more sacred than the fight for freedom. (APPLAUSE).

I look at Argentina and I see a country with everything to do, a country rich in natural resources, rich in human capital and with a spirit hungry for prosperity, but locked in, corseted and repressed by a model that can only lead to failure. We come to return freedom to Argentines, because only a free society can progress; only a dynamic society, that works, that employs, that trades, that produces, that imports and that exports, without anyone telling it what and how it can prosper. Only by being a free society can we as a nation take advantage of the natural gifts that God has granted us.

I look at Argentina today and I am certain that with the ideas of freedom as a lighthouse this country still has everything to return to the path of prosperity. That is why we govern: to once again make Argentina one of the great nations in the world, a leader and reference in the region, a productive, agricultural, energy, commercial, maritime and technological power full of life, voracious to populate the corners. of the Homeland with the border spirit that once characterized us. That is the country I dream of and for which I govern. (APPLAUSE).

To conclude, this message, to the Governors, the leaders, the different parties of the political system and the Deputies and Senators, who are here, present today, I say: you are facing a pivotal moment in Argentine history, you can cling to a unjust system, of which the vast majority of society is a victim or can leave their particular interests and ideological prejudices aside to collaborate with our mission of change, help us transform the country and pass down to posterity as patriots. If you choose to rise to the occasion and present yourself, in Córdoba, to sign the May Pact, both I and the Argentine people will recognize that gesture as an act of humility and courage and a clear sign that we can work together, without grudges.

I ask only one thing from the Argentines: patience and trust, there will be some time before we can perceive the fruit of the economic consolidation and the reforms that we are implementing. What's more, we have not yet seen all the effects of the disaster we inherited, but we are convinced that we are on the right path because for the first time in history we are attacking the problem for its cause: the fiscal deficit and not for its symptoms. That is why I ask you for patience and trust because no matter how dark the night is, the Sun always rises in the morning. (APPLAUSE).

King Solomon asked God for wisdom to distinguish good from evil; courage to choose it and temperance to stay on that path. I ask the same for myself and for everyone present here.

In this way, the ordinary sessions – number 142 – of the Honorable Congress of the Nation are inaugurated. May God bless the Argentines and may the Forces of Heaven be with us.

Thank you so much. Long live freedom, damn it! (APPLAUSE)
