President Javier Milei, presented his book 'The path of the libertarian', in Spain

https://www.casarosada.gob.ar/informacion/discursos/50495-el-presidente-javier-milei-presento-su-libro-el-camino-del-libertario-en-espana

Friday, May 17, 2024

President Javier Milei, presented his book 'The path of the libertarian', in Spain

Juan Ramón Rallo: Well, good afternoon Javier and thank you very much for being in Spain, and I hope, as I say at the outset, your ideas truly inspire Spanish society and politics, that is right from the start. But precisely what are your ideas? What is libertarian liberalism?

Javier Milei: Let's see, I'm going to make a small intro about the characteristics of the book and I also thank La Razón, Deusto for this space and above all for having the honor of being with Juan Ramón here, which for me is a huge pleasure . The book is my third book with Planeta, so this is the first in the series that is The Way of the Libertarian which is from 22; The end of inflation is on the 23rd; and 24 is currently Capitalism, socialism and the neoclassical trap. This book basically tells the elements with which I became a national deputy, what that path was like. I tell it because it is relevant to the facts of what you are raising. The book basically has three parts: it has a part that is autobiographical or if you want a biography; There is one that is in the first person, which is where I tell some aspects of my life that I think were important when I entered politics. For example, at one point we mentioned that I had been a soccer goalkeeper. That has a much stronger importance than one imagines.
You think that in football, soccer, the goalkeeper dresses differently than the rest of the players, he is the only one who can use his hands within the regulations, he is the only one who dresses differently, think that when there is A goal is celebrated by the entire team on the other side and the goalkeeper is alone. The goalkeeper also trains alone and if a striker scores a goal there is no problem, but if the goalkeeper makes a mistake, it is a goal against. Therefore, that has a very strong effect on the personality, and that makes it a type of strong character, so to speak. Or on the other hand, sometimes they have also focused on my physical appearance. Well, when I stopped playing soccer and dedicated myself to studying intensely, in the midst of, let's say, as a result of the hyperinflation of 1989, when wholesale inflation that year reached close to 5000%, I remember that I was in my first year. in college and I was studying that when prices go up, the quantity demanded goes down, at that time there were some girls who passed by with tickers, in fact at that time after the barcode was put up.
We are talking about the year 89, he is a big man, I am 53 years old and then they passed by highlighting the prices and people jumped on the merchandise. So, one of two things: either the books were bad or I was stupid. Then the dignity solution made me stop playing soccer and dedicate myself to studying intensely, and at the age of 20 I wrote my first academic article called Hyperinflation and the Distortion of Markets. But in parallel he had a rock band, so we also went. The other part is that thing when he is surprised. Just as the look is that he had a Stone band and he also sang. With which

part of the histrionics that explains it. That parallel biography then has people who have accompanied me, that is, very nice testimonies. For example, that of my friend Diego Sucalesca, for example. We did something called the consultancy my law on the City Canal and basically what we did was Walter Block's book, that is, Defending the Indefensible. And it was very funny, because Sucalesca always came in sorry. And then we gave Walter Block the solution and it came out very funny.

And that began to generate such an impact on networks that we took it to the theater, and it was a theatrical success at a time when, basically, it was difficult for the rest to fill a theater, we filled theaters regularly. Or for example, there is a beautiful testimony, for example, from Santiago Oría, who is our filmmaker, who poses the entire epic as a superhero question, or there is the testimony of my sister, or that of my best friend, that is , they are testimonies, or let's say, that of the president of the libertarian party, and count all the aberrations, because, I say, you, today we see the final output but when we started this race, in the Autonomous city of Buenos Aires, basically the boss The government in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires went out to co-opt labels so that we could not compete. So we weren't going to be able to compete because we weren't going to have a label. We managed to have a label despite a lot of pretty rough things that happened to us in the middle.

So, he created within his space a list of pseudo liberals to try to destroy our space, where instead of competing internally they dedicated themselves to dirtying our structure, which seemed very strange. Also a rather dirty method of trying to co-opt people close to you to stab you in the back, it was a rather violent method of doing politics. Then they said that we were not going to be able to pass the PASO, that it was a minimum of 2% of the votes; Then they said that we were going to lose against the blank vote; Then they said that the left was going to fill us with goals and we ended up getting 17% of the votes. We got two seats for national deputies, 5 for Buenos Aires legislators. And there is a brilliant idea from my sister that is good, but I mean, for me taxes are theft. So, since taxes are theft, I couldn't be complicit in that. So well, the way was how we returned the taxes to the people. And the reality is that if we did it hitchhiking we did it with some criteria of those characteristics, I almost felt like I was just another politician doing income redistribution. It also made me quite uncomfortable and the boss, my sister, brilliantly came up with the idea: Why don't we sort it out?
When we wanted to do the first raffle there were more than a million guests, signed up, so we already said “This is a more interesting thing.” And when we then held an event in Mar del Plata and there were more than 10,000 people, then we said “I think this is for something else.” And well, I ended up being president. Then the book has a part that is about which topics of economic theory that I brought to the different debates and television programs and so on with which I became very popular. Strictly speaking, I am a specialist in economic growth with or without money, that is, I know how to grow an economy and I know how to end inflation. So, on these issues, precisely, a country that has been the richest country in the world, today it is 140. A country that received people from all over the world, which today has more than 50% poor, more than 10% indigent . That is to say, in the country that produces food for 400 million human beings, with a fiscal pressure of 70% in the sector that produces food, that is to say that the damn state takes the food of 280 million human beings, there are 5 million of Argentines who cannot afford to eat.

So, in that context, also when I started watching TV I was lonelier than Adam on Mother's Day. Because they were all socialists, all collectivists, all politically correct, that is, they were unequal struggles, they were 15 to one, Gladiator was a joke compared to what I had to do. Well, but with economic theory under our arm, empirical evidence and what was happening in reality, the ideas were gaining space. And basically part 2 are those topics that seemed to me, when I made the book for 2022, to be the most relevant in that debate. In fact, I say today the issues of growth continue to be discussed, today the issues of inflation continue to be discussed, today the issues of exchange rate delay continue to be discussed. That is, there is one called exchange rate delay, when economists are part of the problem. In fact, I came from giving a conference this week in front of businessmen explaining that the exchange rate delay is wrong, but it doesn't matter.
And then the third part of the book has my campaign speeches. And at the end he has the discussion of the budget, already being a deputy. In other words, that is basically the structure of the book that I have the honor of having Juan Ramón preface it for me and when I say liberalism you already know it, let's say, I usually rely on the definition that our greatest hero has given of the ideas of freedom in Argentina, who is Professor Alberto Benegas Lynch Jr., who says that liberalism is the unrestricted respect for the life project of others, based on the principle of non-aggression, this is a no small issue, he stressed, and in defense the right to life, liberty and property. And furthermore, I say, and it is one of the chapters, that is, whose institutions are private property, markets free of state intervention, competition, division of labor and social cooperation, where you can only be successful in capitalism. serving others with better quality goods at a better price. That is to say, deep down, a successful capitalist is a social benefactor, he is a hero, or else we can put him in broad formats, that is, capitalism, savings, and hard, hard, hard work.

Juan Ramón Rallo: So, this being libertarian liberalism, you have said many times, and I believe it is true, that you are the first liberal libertarian president in history, at least declared a liberal libertarian, without a doubt you are. What do you think libertarian liberalism can contribute to Argentina? If you like, then we talk in the short and long term, but to Argentina and the rest of the world that other political movements are not contributing right now, such as, I don't know, clearly socialism, social democracy but also nationalism, conservatism, that is , What is the differential fact of libertarian liberalism compared to the rest of political movements?

Javier Milei: Let's see, this is an extremely interesting question, because the upgrade that liberalism implies in terms of political implementation is an upgrade in moral terms. But this is not a minor issue. I am going to do it with an example, perhaps it is not so simple in Spain, I say, because some of the sufferings that we have are not there, but for example, capital control, that is, the fact that one cannot decide what currency to buy, what currency to stay in, well that, for example, is savage, and it is deeply immoral. So, for example, why does that happen? Because Argentina generates as a consequence of that disastrous phrase that all leftists like, which is “Where there is a need, there is a right”, the problem is that the needs are infinite, someone has to pay for the right. Remember this, someone has to pay the rights and since resources are finite,

That's where the big problem appears, I say, which manifests itself as a fiscal deficit, in general the more immoral a politician is, the more he finances it with debt.
See that there is always the moral dimension, and liberalism fully contributes this. Why is debt immoral? Debt is immoral, because today's party is being passed on to future generations. It's like we don't go all out partying and pass the bill on to our grandchildren. How would you rate it? A pretty ugly thing. Or for example finance it with monetary emission, which is a non-legislated tax. Taxes are theft and this is also theft. The real theft is seigniorage, it is the issuance of money. But not only that, but it is also deeply regressive, so it hits the most vulnerable hardest. In Argentina, for example, it happens that the biggest fans of seigniorage and the inflation tax are the progressives and they are a machine for producing the poor. And the other thing directly is taxes, which is directly theft, it is a confiscation.
So, what is happening? When they run out of resources, they end up going for monetary issuance, and that begins to generate inflation. Since they don't like inflation, I say, because it is a harmful effect and it bothers people, then what do they do? To try to control prices they set the exchange rate, and by fixing the exchange rate they begin to lose reserves. It's manual. So, since they don't like losing reservations,
what do they do? They put capital control. Capital control is not only violating your freedom to decide in which currency to save, but it is also destroying your future consumption, but not only that, it also forces you to retain more of the local currency, therefore, increases the tax base of the inflation tax by force. That is, then you see that capital control, for example, is a strongly immoral policy, it is an aberration, or for example, this is a hilarious example, hilarious unless you have to live it.
Another thing that politicians do is, instead of attacking the causes, they focus on the effects, so they put price controls. So, for example, during the last stage of Kirchnerism, before we came to power, what did Kirchnerism do? Faced with the fact that prices were rising and that the price agreements were not met and shortages appeared, which is why there are also supply laws, a law that we have eliminated with the DNU. But not only that, it is also interesting. So what did they do, they sent the union gang with sticks to control prices. So, I say it is clear that this is an aberration. Now, a sector of the opposition, the criticism was “we must not send the gangsters, we must send the police”, that is, the legal gangster. What's more, look, they end up being more nefarious and more sinister than the Kirchnerist populists themselves, because the Kirchnerist populist sent the gangsters, the Kirchnerist government ended, no one sends those gangsters anymore. Now what that part of the cowardly opposition does, which wanted to send the uniformed men to control prices, is much worse. Because what does it do? Send a law to do that.
With which you have a bigger problem, because now you also have to remove that law that institutionalizes violence, when in reality this should never have happened because you should not have done it out of respect for the right to property. And there is respect for life, liberty and property, precisely. So notice how the definition of liberalism and institutions is very important, and how the moral question, that is, because violence is wrong, expropriation is wrong, then that is a guide to economic policy. And when one removes the oppressive paw of the State from politics, societies flourish. So, we come from a decline of more than 100 years,

I mean, it literally happened to us like a toad, you want to cook a toad,
how do you do it? He's going to throw it in hot water, the toad jumps out. So what did they do? They put it in cold water and then put the burners on. Well, they cooked it, they cooked it so much and they went so far in a mambo that there ended up being a liberal libertarian president, which is not normal under normal conditions of pressure and temperature.
Well, in fact, I always said that in my case it was a hymn to type two error. Error type one is when you do everything right and it turns out wrong. Error type two is when you do everything wrong and it turns out right. So let's see, I'm an economist; The truth is that economists are not very well-liked people. Also because of the type of specialization I have, I say I use a lot of mathematics and all that stuff. Therefore the segment is smaller. Furthermore, being a specialist in economic growth in a country sick with Keynesianism, less so. And also liberal in a country of lefties. It was impossible. I mean, well they did things so badly that here we are. And we are very successfully taming inflation. They left us with hyperinflation, to give you an idea, when we arrived inflation was running at a rate of 1% per day, that is, at 3,700 per year; In the second week of December it was already 7500. Wholesale inflation for the month of December was 54%, which annualized equals 17,000. And well, today the wholesale inflation data will also be released, with a truly phenomenal collapse, which shows the enormous task we are doing.
We received the country with twin deficits for the equivalent of 17% of GDP. Think that 4 is a yellow alert, red is going to give you a pineapple, 17 imagine. Of those 17, 15 were due to the fiscal deficit, 5 in the national treasury, 10 in the Central Bank. They told us that it was impossible to adjust the treasury more than one point, and in reality we had a very austerity policy and we ended up making an adjustment of seven points of GDP, that is, we overreacted the treasury, which is why we can now relax a little the conditions. We have had four consecutive months of financial surplus. And as for the quasi-fiscal deficit, that is, the one generated by the Central Bank, we have already taken it from 10 points of GDP to 3, with which we made another 7 more adjustments. In other words, we have done it in less than 5 months, we made an adjustment of 14 points of GDP, and we also started, now that the debt market is stabilized, we started to move the debt from the Central Bank to the Treasury, which is as it should. have always been, which we are going down even further. And well, we are managing to address the issue of inflation through a very tough fiscal policy, through a clean-up of the Central Bank and the honesty of the exchange market, which sooner or later, we are going to end up opening the market, and at the same time time, what is beginning to be seen is that the economy hit a floor between the month of March and April, with which there are already indicators that show that the economy is recovering. Therefore, what they said was impossible to do was a lie, it was not impossible, it can be done, but one has to have the courage. And in that, liberalism is our North. That is to say, when I go to cabinet meetings and make decisions in front of my ministers, the North is always thinking about freedom.
Warning: it is not a straight, uniform path. I mean, you know where you want to go. In the middle there are pitfalls, there are not only pitfalls that one has to avoid. When one is dodging, there are also those who throw torpedoes from outside, their own and others. Which is not an easy task. That is why sometimes one sees that there seems to be some deviation from the ideas of freedom and in reality it has to do with the fact that there are political issues that make one have to... the set of restrictions is greater. Look, I'm going to confess something to you. I am a good friend of a great Argentine economist called Juan Carlos de Pablo and when I read Murray Newton Rothbard's article, Monopoly and

competition, which is part of that wonderful book Man, the Economy and the State - it's in volume two of this one, if I'm not mistaken - nothing, I turned (ancap) accordingly.
And then, I had many conversations with Pablo's teacher, and the truth is that I had become unbearable, I was quite rough. And Pablo's professor, he interviewed all the Ministers of Economy and Presidents of the Central Bank from the middle of the 20th century onwards, so one of the things he said to me, but why is someone who knows so much and knows so many things? so condescending And although I always tried to incorporate the restrictions, you know that we have many of our ranks that find it difficult to incorporate the restrictions, I always tried to do it, I never believed there were so many. So the other day when we and Professor De Pablo got together on Sundays to watch opera and when we were having dinner I made my self-criticism and apologized for those moments in which I didn't quite understand what it was about, because the It is true that the amount of restrictions that one faces are much greater than one thought and, furthermore, as they say in chess, even when one gets white, black also plays. That is, with the political balance, do not believe that politicians are interested in you being better. No, that's lie. The only thing they are interested in is being well in general.
And I don't know, in the twenty-fifth order he must care about what happened to the country. Except, I say, when they have rare cases where, let's say, they got married. But, I say, once again we have to reach very extreme situations like the one we reached and, in that carom, we appeared and, the good thing about this is that the reflectors turned on everywhere and we are bothering the reds all over the place. World.

Juan Ramón Rallo: A doubt about the situation and precisely about the horizon. Right now, you yourself have commented, you consider capital control immoral, but there is a trap that you are maintaining due to these political restrictions. After eliminating it, what is the horizon? Because in recent days I have at least read headlines: We are prepared for dollarization, we rule out dollarization. Is the plan to close the Central Bank still on?

Javier Milei: The point is the following, we say to more or less have the idea of ​​the inheritance we received at the Central Bank. The Central Bank, for each peso of monetary base, there were more than three of remunerated liabilities, which was what generated this tremendous quasi-fiscal deficit of 10 points of GDP, at the same time there was debt with importers, the famous SIRA, which was more than 50,000 million dollars. , the net reserves of the Central Bank were negative by 12 billion dollars, there was capital control and the gap was 200%, that is, it was a three-to-one parallel with the official one. In addition, we had maturities in pesos for the equivalent of 90,000 million dollars, we had external maturities for 24 billion dollars with the agreement with the Fund fallen and, in addition, we had trapped dividends. And, furthermore, the previous government used, since the banks did not want to finance the fiscal deficit directly, the Central Bank was used as an indirect mechanism, which are these put instruments. They are American puts, and on top of that they can execute them whenever they feel like it.
So, basically the emission faucets are the public sector, we attack that faucet with the fiscal surplus. There is the tap of the external sector, that is against the demand for money, in principle it would not be a problem, maybe we sterilize it, basically, to rebuild the position of the Central Bank. What's more, in fact the State buys them with the surplus and takes out debt from the Central Bank so that it can be recomposed,

Since the previous government sold dollars all the time, in 5 months we bought 16,000 million dollars. Not only that, but we also had endogenous issuance mechanisms, whether it was the issue of repos, to give you an idea, there were instruments that the Central Bank had that were for one month, three months, six months, one year, and by the time we arrived they all spent it in one day.
That is, they could quadruple the amount of money in one day, so you can imagine what that would have been like. So the problem was no longer just a problem of flows, but we had a problem of enormous stocks. So on the one hand, we were liquefying the passes; On the other hand, we are passing the repo debt, in fact yesterday we eliminated a third of the repos, we are working on solving the issue of puts. Therefore we are ending all endogenous emission factors. And we are doing successive BOPREAL operations to clean up the problem that has to do with the dividends retained to match the fund flows. Because? Because if I released all those funds, they all go together and temporarily generate a very profound increase in demand for foreign currency; That can make the exchange rate jump violently, it makes the demand for money fall and triggers a hyper. So, until I finish fixing the stock problem, I can't open the stocks.
But notice this. We did an honesty of the exchange rate and brought it to a level corrected by COUNTRY Tax that gave the market exchange rate, there is a market exchange rate, there is no gap, that is no small fact. I explain this because when we did this at the Hotel Libertador, where my friend Santiago Abascal came to greet and congratulate me, among other friends who also came. And we were with the minister of economy, with the president of the Central Bank and other members of the team, the consensus, I say, so that you also know how dirty many Argentine economists are, they said that the exchange rate had to be set at 600 and they had a hypothesis that if it went well inflation would be higher than what we have had, and they are the same as what they now talk about exchange rate delay. We, specifically, that decision was made by me, I told Minister Caputo “Let's set the exchange rate to something that is similar to the market,” because what that will do was reduce the excess demand for foreign currency, the others reduced us. excess supply, and therefore the suffering in activity and employment will be lower.
They told us everything. And then if you notice, we are already finishing eliminating all the endogenous emission factors. In fact, we are already advancing an agreement with the banks to eliminate the issue of puts, we have already eliminated a third of the remunerated ones, we have already reduced the quasi-fiscal deficit by more than 80%, therefore, and we are already doing so, we are almost at the end. half of the dividends. Apart from the fact that we fix the SIRA and all the other issues that we fix. Therefore, when we finish cleaning up the Central Bank, what we are going to do is release the stocks. Because? Because this is important, there will be no issuance by the treasury, there will be no issuance by the financial sector and there will be no issuance by the external sector, so the exchange rate will be free. And this is the interesting part about the future that you are asking me about. We are going to send a law, where it is prohibited to issue money; In other words, the monetary issue is a crime, in which the president of the Central Bank, the board of directors, the President of the Nation, the Minister of Economy and all the deputies and senators who approve an aberration of these characteristics will be imprisoned.
So what is that going to result in? Once we open the stocks, no more money can be issued. By not issuing more money, the consequent increases in the demand for money, if the economy begins to grow and

begins to recompose the intertemporal path of consumption and demand more money, this monetization will be done endogenously by people bringing their foreign currencies into the economy. So what is happening? Obviously there is going to be currency competition and people are going to determine in what currency they want to make it. But if you look at it, in an economy that is expanding with more demand for money, that is going to imply a greater amount of money and that individuals are going to bring it as foreign currency, in whatever they want. Let's assume it was a dollar, to simplify it. Then there will be more dollars turning around the economy and the amount of pesos will remain the same. Therefore, at one point the amount of dollars will be so large compared to the pesos that, by closing the Central Bank, it will be eliminated.

Juan Ramón Rallo: Now we are in the stabilization phase of the patient, which is no small feat, because he was a terminal patient, absolutely terminal and also a patient who had already been through this ordeal many times and always disappointing the international markets, internal savers. I mean, he's always gone wrong. Now there is a prospect that he will turn out well and that he will leave with credibility and things well done.

Javier Milei: There you have a very strong point in what you are doing. When we took over, the country risk was 2900. Today it is 1200. That is to say, the bonds were quoted at 18 dollars, today they are at 60. It seems that we did something.

Juan Ramón Rallo: Right now you were saying that Argentina has already hit the bottom but there is, precisely, the adjustment necessary to clean up the public sector and the Central Bank has generated a halt in activity in March, early April. Now, as you said, activity begins to revive again. This is the stabilization phase. And you always emphasize the horizon, you said in an interview “my horizon is Rothbard, my horizon is Hoppe.
How do you see the horizon? How do you think - obviously you have a four-year mandate - what do you plan, what do you foresee for the longer term once this critical phase of stabilization has passed?

Javier Milei: First, and this is a trivial issue for us, but not trivial for the general public. When we make the adjustment, the only chance there was of a shock, I mean, we, first, the empirical evidence in Argentina shows that all the shock plans, excluding the one of '59, were all expansive and successful, and all the gradualist ones ended badly. But also to do gradualism you have to have financing, I mean, we didn't have it either. So, neither, I mean, I am a lover of shock, but there was no other alternative either, so I'm not going to go big there either because no other, I was dancing with the one I wanted, I mean, well, the spontaneous order is better. Thanks dad, Adam Smith.
Leaving that aside, what happens? That increase in savings in a country with zero credibility, a horrible reputation, it was obvious that this increase in savings was not going to have a counterpart in investment and consequently that generated a collapse in the goods market and it is the recession, which one begins, which are the numbers for the first quarter of the Argentine economy. I say that was sung. In fact, the day I take office I tell people: there is no money, it's going to hurt, it's going to be this. I say something that no one thought I was going to do: I said it during the campaign, I said it the day I took office and then we did it. And not only that, but the point is, as Juan Ramón very well says, is that we are hitting the bottom, because a lot of indicators

advances that show that we have hit the bottom. So how is the recovery going to come now and how does this later link to the long term?
In what has to do with the short term, I say, you had the contraction in demand, so it has to do with the recovery of demand. The recovery in demand is being seen, for example, in the recovery of real wages. With salaries beating inflation, with salaries beating strongly what has to do with food and beverages and products that have to do with the home, with retirements beating inflation, because how they adjust for lagging inflation and inflation downwards, therefore, it is also improving that. So, that is a component, let's say, that is going to be recomposed. Then, another component that begins to recompose is the issue of investment, even if we did not make structural reforms, the looting of populism, that is, 20 years of populism consuming capital, what it did is that by destroying capital, the marginal productivity of capital is very high. That is, the real returns, if you want to see it in terms of investors, the beat of the firm's fund flow, which is what they have to map against the WEC, is enormous.
There is investment opportunity, even if we did nothing. And then there is another element, which is a driver of forward growth, is that if we made an adjustment of 15 points of GDP, those resources that the treasury took to finance the parasites, are now on their way to financing the private sector. In fact, if we were discussing the possibility of hyperinflation in the month of December, today we are talking about 30-year mortgage loans. It seems that something changed.

Juan Ramón Rallo: Explain it because many people probably don't know it. In Argentina there were no mortgage loans.

Javier Milei: No, and in fact credit to the non-financial private sector is four points of GDP. So, in that sense, we are doing this recomposition. And then, to give you an idea, the largest reform in Argentine history was carried out by Menem and that reform, that law, was a fifth of what our Base Law is. In our Bases Law it is five times larger and also, not only that, but the DNU is 300 or so. We sent nearly a thousand structural reforms, out of nowhere, in two weeks. And I'm going to tell you something, it's going to take more or less but they're going to leave and 3,000 more are coming.
And what all these reforms aim for is that Argentina ends up being the country with the greatest economic freedom in the world and, in this way, Argentina in 35 or 40 years will be one of the main world powers, as it was at the end of the 19th century.

Juan Ramón Rallo: And if we had, it is always complicated to make these comparisons, because, furthermore, if you are the first liberal-libertarian president in history it means that there are no precedents. If we had to imagine an existing country that you would like to see Argentina reflected in, not in terms of development, but in terms of institutional design, economic freedoms, social freedoms, which one would it be?

Javier Milei: Today the most similar would be Switzerland or Ireland, but the problem is that Ireland began to go backwards with the reforms. Because the point is that Ireland, from being the poorest country in Europe, today has a GDP per capita 50% higher than that of the United States, so the miracle did take place, but when these things happen... this is an issue that It would have to be actively incorporated into the cultural battle, because when one becomes very successful is when the disastrous socialist ideas appear, based on

envy, hatred, resentment, unequal treatment before the law and obviously they have no problem murdering people either, because they have 150 million deaths to their name. But apart from that, the discussion of income distribution is very important. In fact, after the fall of the wall, one could call it the post-Marxism that was and was grouped in different places. Here is wonderful and brilliant Agustín Laje, who describes it like few people in the world.
They transferred the idea of ​​class struggle to different issues, and in economics, the discussion continues to be that they do not deny the superiority of capitalism in the productive sphere, but they say that it is unfair and that it is unbearably unfair, and it seems to me that this It is the discussion that must be given and one must go with moral values, and when one sees the aberrant moral values ​​behind socialism, that is, one would realize that it is, not only as Huerta de Soto would say, an intellectual fraud, but it is a horror in human terms. But one of the things that socialism does very well there and that is very well captured in a book by Misses, called the anti-capitalist mentality, is how they resort to human misery to implement their ideas. Let's see, suppose that we are now all here in a balanced situation, a shock comes that makes us for some reason want to demand more of one good compared to the others. Naturally, what is going to happen to that good, that good is going to rise in price.
Obviously, whoever manages to satisfy that demand is going to do very well, they are going to earn a lot of money; I mean, that guy is a hero. And the socialists manage to show that as a monstrosity that “he Look at everything he earns and how he abuses others, how he is exploiting others.” So, that mechanism by which they cause the problem, what they do is give envy a nice justification. So, and that generates an attack on those who generate wealth and what they end up doing is sinking the country. I come from a place where that was done, it's called Argentina, the idea of ​​Social justice is that. It is an idea of ​​resentful, envious people, which is also unfair because it also implies unequal treatment before the law, because it implies violence. Because to carry out this redistributive policy you have to steal from one person to give it to another. The idea of ​​social justice is truly aberrant and the correlation is that then the person who had to invest does not end up investing and then we are all worse off. On the other hand, if we understood that the person who is earning money is doing so by serving others with better quality goods at a better price, he is a hero. So a very dynamic society that grows a lot is going to generate inequality. Because? Because every time a product is created, every time a need is solved, that individual is going to make money. Look, my sister is a witness: One of the most wonderful things that happened to me talking to Elon Musk, at one point she tells me “I get up every day to see what trouble I can fix for people”, a great guy. In other words, what problem can he solve for people? That's great, let's say, because then he's thinking to see how he solves problems for you. So what do you care if you earn money or more money, less money, if it is making your life better. What do I care if someone comes and makes these glasses ten times better and ten times cheaper, I mean, they make a lot of money, if I am much better, I have better glasses and I also have more money to spend on a lot of other things. But that's why because socialism is what it does. There's a joke between two people, right? A and B. A has a sheep and is happy with the sheep and all the barbarians, and the Creator presents himself to B and says “I'll give you whatever you want,” because he was deeply envious that A already had a sheep. So what could he have asked for, that he give him a sheep, 10 sheep, right? He had the Creator in front of him, everything. “Let the sheep die.” That is socialism. That's why it sinks.

Moral values ​​have an institutional correlation, and those institutions are what end up destroying or not destroying a country, so it seems to me that that is the fight that must be fought, I say, where, for example, what Juan Ramón does is wonderful. Because furthermore, in the case of Juan Ramón, he not only stays in the academy, but also puts his fingers in the situation, which is a mess. Imagine what the mud of politics is like, I mean I have mud everywhere. But hey, nothing, I say, but I think I cleaned myself pretty well before coming.

Juan Ramón Rallo: You have come to participate in a VOX event this Sunday. How would you like, in some way, to inspire, not VOX anymore, but what are called new European rights? Because these new rights are an amalgam of very diverse ideas, there are some that are protectionist, some that lean more towards the free market. How do you see yourself fitting in there?

Javier Milei: I am going to make several references. The first is, one has to be a person who has gratitude and be grateful. When I was a despicable being that no one loved me, the only one who hugged me was Santiago Abascal. Therefore, it was a moral imperative to participate in the event. Because he is also a friend and he is a great human being. The other thing that must be understood is that power is a zero-sum game and if left-handed people have it, we don't have it. And they understand that. So I would say, look, the cancer of humanity is socialism, the enemy is socialism. If I were to tell you something, it would be to try to get everyone involved, that is, one of the wonderful things that happened now in Argentina and that when I proposed it during the campaign and when I entered politics was that there had to be an order in ideological terms so that when people vote they know what they are voting for.
So, on one side are the collectivists and on the other side are those who embrace the ideas of freedom. Then, obviously there are going to be nuances, there is a phrase by Friedman that was great, he says, look at liberals, there are different types of liberals, he says, look, you have classical liberals, you could put Adam Smith there, we can put Friedman there, I mean, there are some who could even put Hayek there, I mean, you have the minarchists, I don't know, we could put Misses. And at one point, says Friedman, something that he knew firsthand from his son, and if he looks closely there are even anarchists. So what I'm saying is, instead of being so worried about the differences we can have on this side of life, let's not let the dark, black, satanic, atrocious, horrible, carcinogenic side that is socialism, get the better of us. . Thank you so much.
