PM’s speech on the occasion of dedication of INS Vikramaditya to the country

https://www.narendramodi.in/pms-speech-on-the-occasion-of-dedication-of-ins-vikramaditya-to-the-country-2822

June 14, 2014

My greetings to all my beloved fellow countrymen who have dedicated their lives protecting our great country India! I have come out of Delhi for the first time as a Prime Minister and have come directly to you. I believe this will help you understand the priorities of the new government.

To ensure that our country supersedes the new heights set for development, to ensure that the poorest of the poor live with happiness and peace and the single most important pre-condition is that India should be safe. And for this safety the biggest driving force are the armed forces be it the Army, the Navy or the Air Force. It is the ability, sacrifice and dedication of our soldiers that ensures a peaceful sleep to the 125 crore Indians. In today’s scenario, the armed forces have undergone sea change. Modern technology has become an important component in the field of security. Hence for a nation to be equipped with the most advanced defence technologies and armaments is as important as the pooling up of dedicated, talented and courageous souls in its armed forces. Today is an important day in the history of India’s security and through our Navy that this golden chapter is being added to it.

Vikramaditya is being dedicated to the soldiers of the Navy. A new and important step is getting imprinted in India’s security. The common man of the country would not be able to comprehend the importance of Vikramaditya as this is not his domain but to those soldiers of the Navy, who have decided to dedicate their lives for the Mother India, very well know and understand the potential of Vikramaditya. It is a matter of great pride and happiness for me that I have the opportunity of being amongst you in this historical moment when Vikramaditya is being inducted to the fleet, to be able to understand its potential and strength and also to take pride in India’s valour.

The Navy has won accolades in many fields. In the entire history of mankind, Shivaji was the first person to float the concept of a naval force and its basic association was less with war. Its main aim was to protect the ships going for International trade and it was Shivaji’s dream that India should become a powerful country in world trade. Hence he thought of protecting the individuals involved in trade and with this the concept of a naval force came into existence centuries ago. Today, naval forces have become very important for all those countries having long coastlines or who are close to the sea. The competition in modern science and technology has also become equally important. The Navy has adopted the methodology of ‘Indigenous Technology’, the scientists from our very own India in conjunction with the inputs from Navy slowly developed ‘Indigenous Technology’ and has entered in the field of strategic warfare and in the very near future we plan to take it forward.

We have to come out of the situation very soon when a country like India still imports defence equipments even after so many years of Independence. India has to move forward in the field of self-sufficiency in defence offset production and India should become a hub of such equipment for smaller nations of the world. The smaller nations should have faith that they have reliable defence equipment made in India by the Indian youth. We should move forward with the dream that smaller nations should be inculcated the faith that they will never accept defeat.

The talent, innovation, research, technological upgradation capabilities of the Indian youth coupled with our strong deterrence will make us an unbeatable power and no one will dare to undermine us. The safety of the nation is associated not only with the soldiers of all the three forces but also with the temperament of the people in power. India neither wants to undermine any country’s sovereignty nor are we going to live with heads bowed down. We may be a very strong nation, but we do not intend to threaten anyone, rather we wish to move together. At the same time we are not ready to bow down and the Indian government has the capability to see anyone in the eye and make its point. And at the root cause of this courage is the preparation and courage of our soldiers and that gives us this strength.

Today, I had the chance to see this huge development meant for our defence forces. For hours, I have been looking at this ship from every angle - from top to bottom and from right to left. I have been told that more than 1600 soldiers have been deployed on it simultaneously. Our air fleet will be able to take off and land from this ship. This is an important development from strategic point of view and today we have received an important gift. I offer my heartiest wishes to all the naval officers of the country.

The preparation required on the coast is much more than the readiness required in the sea. Training of the citizens there is equally important for the help of the navy. A network of Naval NCC needs to be created in the coastal areas. Through the medium of Naval NCC, patriotic youth force can emerge as a powerful tool which can provide the navy with critical information and help from behind the scenes and we want to work in this direction in the near future. I would again like to give my good wishes to the soldiers of the Army, Navy and Air force on this pious occasion today.

This new government has made some important decisions. For many years the soldiers have had a wish. I do not know why that task was not undertaken by the previous governments. May be it is my destined good fortune to do this good and holy task. And so this government has decided to create a National level War Memorial. The future generations may be reminded of those who in the post independence era laid down their lives for the country, which is why we have decided to take this step.

One rank one pension has been a long battle, it has witnessed many ups and downs, many promises were made but the intention was never evident. This government just does not make promises, it has the intention to implement it too. We are committed to implement one rank one pension scheme.

I again dedicate the Vikramaditya to the navy, which has sun like brightness in its name that inspires to win many a wars ahead. I wish that your life may be filled with the same brightness, valor and the conviction to be always victorious.

Join me in saying, Bharat Mata Ki Jai!Bharat Mata Ki Jai!Bharat Mata Ki Jai!
