Full speech of Shri Narendra Modi addressing a public meeting in Jodhpur, Rajasthan

https://www.narendramodi.in/full-speech-of-shri-narendra-modi-addressing-a-public-meeting-in-jodhpur-rajasthan-2804

November 29, 2013

Friends, we have seen many elections. Contestants contest with each other, political parties fight in the elections, but it is the first time I am seeing people contesting the election! It seems as if the people have decided and the direction of wind that I can sense is not only limited in Rajasthan but in entire India. Friends, on 8th December, we will contest in Rajasthan and also in India!

Friends, Madam Sonia Ji came to Rajasthan and she said that Congress has worked so much, it has served people so well that Rajasthan has reached newer heights of development! Can you believe this statement? Because it is of no use to get a certificate from outsiders, only what the local people say is final! Do you believe this thing? Can you see any truth in it? Friends, forget about you, the Supreme Court itself scolded the Rajasthan government. The apex court of this country said that if you can’t maintain law and order then give up on it! At the same time Rajasthan High Court said that you do not know how to govern. Not only this, the Governor of Rajasthan is of their party only. Governor Madam said that neither can you build roads, nor can you take care of the tribal issues, if you do not know how to work, hand it over to me, I will do it for you! The Supreme Court doubts, the High Court scolds, your own Governor expresses her rage against you and still the Madam says that everything is fine here! Ok Madam, do not believe the Supreme Court, High Court, or the Governor for that matter, but at least believe on what the Shahzada says!

Friends, in the Congress government, there have been 40 riots in Rajasthan. When a riot broke in Bharatpur district, then the Shahzada, without informing Rajasthan government went to Bharatpur. He reached Bharatpur riding on someone’s motorcycle. Friends, the people of Rajasthan know well that who was driving the bike? Whole Rajasthan knows about his history and geography? Everyone knows his deeds well? He was riding the bike and it was a stolen bike! What a scene it must be! Just think, the Shahzada is ready to ride with a history sheeter, but is not ready to sit along with the Chief Minister of Rajasthan! The Shahzada prefers to ride a stolen bike compared to the car of his party’s Rajasthan government, what kind of distrust is this?

Friends, the government whose work is not appreciated by any constitutional body, how can we trust such government? When our country got freedom, many other countries, including many small nations, got freedom after us, but they surpassed us and our condition kept deteriorating..! Friends, if after ‘Swaraj’, the independence, there would have been focus on ‘Suraaj’, the good governance, then the country would not have been in such situation. The biggest problem in front of our country today is bad governance! Till the time we move towards good governance unshackling from bad governance, we can’t solve the problems of this nation!

Friends, Congress does not believe in good governance. They think that they will remain in power with the politics of manipulations, their pockets will keep getting filled, and some of their coming generations will have fortunes left to them, this is the mentality of Congress party! Friends, bad governance is such a disease that makes our country hollow. It is such a disease that depresses every citizen of India; it creates a sense of mistrust and at times also leads to outrage! The way diabetes makes a healthy, fit and fine body hollow from inside and makes it a host to various diseases, in the same way bad governance is like diabetes for India, which is making our country hollow from inside!



Friends, if Gujarat is reaching new heights of growth, its basic reason is good governance. People should get answers to their questions, their grievances should be redressed, problems should be solved. Friends, government is not of the rich, neither it should be! If well to do person becomes ill, doctors from across the world come to his aid, but if a poor falls ill, he has no other option except a government hospital. If son of a rich man has to study, then the best teachers of the world can be hired, but for a poor kid, there is nothing more than government school in his fate. Friends, government should be for the unprivileged! If they had the slightest of attachment with the poor, then more than one lakh post for teachers in the government schools of Rajasthan would not have been vacant. Friends, you only tell me… is the youth of Rajasthan not capable to become a teacher? Can you become teachers or not? Can you teach kids or not? But, this Rajasthan government has no faith in you! When more than one lakh posts of teachers are vacant, where education of children is not taken care of, then how will they care for the future of Rajasthan?

Friends, to what extent has corruption gone up! Look at the examples of bad governance, it leaves an open ground for the corruption! The farmers of our country from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, they worked hard day and night and produced wheat to fill the granaries of the country. But look at the bad governance, there is no place to keep the wheat that has been produced by the hard work of farmer of our country. They keep the wheat in open fields, on railway platforms and the wheat gets soaked and rots! When a PIL was filed, then the Supreme Court asked the Government of India to distribute this wheat amongst the poor. Friends, this work should have been done or not? The instructions of Supreme Court should have been followed or not? Did they follow it? No, they did not! Do you know what they did? They did let the wheat rot there and then they sold it to brewers at the rate of 80 paisa! Friends, isn’t it an insult of our farmers? The farmer produces wheat to serve the hungry, and these governments with bad governance, this congress party, it uses this wheat to make liquor! You tell me, the wheat should be used to feed the hungry or to fill the liquor bottles? For the people for whom wine bottles are more important than the starving poor, how can they do any good to the poor? These people can’t do any good for the poor!

Friends, call it their bad governance or their corruption, I will tell you an interesting thing about it. The borders of Gujarat and Rajasthan are adjacent to each other and there are four check posts between them. The vehicle that passes from that road, it has to cross both the state check posts. The Rajasthan check post is at a distance of 1 KM from that of Gujarat. The vehicle that comes to the check post of Gujarat, the same vehicle goes to the check post of Rajasthan, the toll that he pays at Gujarat check post, he pays the same toll at Rajasthan check post as well. Friends, look at the interesting thing that how do they operate. Even though there are same rates at all these check posts and same vehicles passing from them, the income of Rajasthan check post is Rs. 532 crore, while from the same check post the income of Gujarat is Rs. 1300 crore. What is the reason behind it? Where did this money go? What kind of governance you are in?

Friends, when I became the Chief Minister of Gujarat for the first time, since then the great wise men of Congress sitting in Delhi, they keep talking ill about Gujarat in press conferences. All you top guns of Delhi, listen carefully that this election is of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, Gujarat elections have already happened last December. You have spilled all the venom possible in the world about Gujarat, but the people of Gujarat did not accept your words and they made us win the election with 2/3 majority. Whether we have worked or not, that is better known to the people of Gujarat, you stop spreading lies from Delhi!

Friends, when I became the Chief Minister of Gujarat for the first time, people used to come to me and say that everything else is alright, but you are new as Chief Minister, do one thing if nothing else, at least ensure power supply at the dinner time! In 2001-2002, people did not have the electricity supply at the time of dinner, but today in Gujarat, every house gets 24 hours electricity, all seven days of the week and all 365 days of the year! Where there are Congress governments, the news there is not that power goes out, but power supply comes, that is the news! When people meet in markets, trains or busses, they discuss whether there was power supply at their place or not? In these states, getting power supply is news!

Friends, the power of democracy lies in respecting and honouring the opposite views as well, democracy can’t function without this! No matter how many voices have been raised against me, I take it head on, have been taking it for last 12 years, have I ever lost my tongue? This is the beauty of democracy, the strength of democracy. The more we will be criticized, the better we will perform!



Friends, see how they govern in this country. At one side people are facing power crisis, and on the other hand, power generation units with capacity of 20,000 megawatt production are closed. Youngsters are unemployed, there are factories which if started 20,000 megawatt electricity can be transmitted. But look at this amazing nation and government that the power houses are locked and people are made to live in darkness. What is the reason behind it? Friends, the reason is that the Delhi government has got paralyzed, there is policy paralysis and thus the country is left in darkness! Friends, is there anyone amongst you in whose family coal is kept in locks? Coal is always kept outside the house. If some poor person or even a beggar passes by, will he steal coal? But this Delhi government devoured all the coal! Now when the Supreme Court showed the stick, they said that the files are missing! Friends, not only files, but the entire Delhi government is missing. You have just lost the files, but because of you, Indians have lost their lives!

Friends, you can’t run the country depending on these people. Did Congress party promise everyone to control inflation in 100 days? Did inflation get controlled? Did inflation rise more? Did Congress break its promise? Friends, in our country, if a couple of things are not done, people do not mind it and give people benefit of doubt that no issues, might be it was left! But if someone cheats, can this country ever forgive? Does this country forgive fraud? Their saying to you that inflation would be controlled in 100 days and the inflation keeps shooting higher and higher, then will you forgive them?

Friends, this is a serious matter to be understood. If we do not like something, we immediately say that this is not right, this is not good! If I would have come here late, I would have apologized that I am sorry, please forgive me! Is it or not? Friends, look at this Congress party. Madam Sonia Ji, the Shahzada and the Prime Minister, all the three prominent leaders of their party came here. Their CM of their party here also keeps roaming, although he is worried these days, but still on the go! Friends, just now Shambhu Nath Ji was telling me that they are so scared of losing that at 11 in the night, in presence of the police, Shambhu Nath Ji was attacked and tried to create problems for him. Mr. Ashok Ji, people keep losing, you better go to Rajya Sabha and become a minister in Delhi government, there are still 200 days left!

Friends, these people have cheated you. Not only this, such giant leaders of their party are giving speeches here, they are cursing BJP, are blaming BJP for every problem, but they ever uttered a single word on inflation? Tell me, have they ever talked of inflation in their speeches? Did they ever give answers on inflation? Friends, if there was some issue, which I did not answer on, then there would have been debate on television for at least a week, that BJP does not answer! The arrogance of Congress is on the seventh sky, they consider the people to be in their pockets and do not consider them worth answering. This is not democracy! Friends, answering on inflation was Congress’s duty, because they made a promise. The youngsters who are sitting here, answer me, what does the youth want today? Does any youngster want to stand as a beggar? Does any youngster want to live on charity? Is any youngster ashamed to work hard? I am proud of the youth of this nation! They are ready to work hard, they are ready to leave their parents, villages and go to work wherever there are opportunities! But Friends, the Delhi and Rajasthan governments are not worried about your future. This is the youngest nation of the world and more than 65% of the population is under the age of 35. It is a young nation that has laborious arms, sharp mind, aspirations; all they need is the opportunity!

Friends, if you will not focus on the developmental issues, if you will not take India to new heights of development, then where will the unemployed youth of the nation go.? How will he lead his life? But Congress government is least bothered about that. All the ladies present here, now the government of Delhi is ready to snatch from you, your Mangalsutra. What kind of language do they use for poverty and inflation! Our Finance Minister said that there is financial crisis, because people buy gold! Now you tell me, does this point make sense to you? Now the Finance Minister of the country gave a statement that Modi Ji is not giving right information about the value of rupee! Shri Chidambaram Ji, I am not as wise as you are, I have reached here selling tea, I was born in a poor family… but Mr. Chidambaram, at least you tell the truth to the people of the country!

Friends, when Atal Ji left the government, at that time Pokhran nuclear test was conducted, and the entire world imposed sanctions on us, the world stopped all forms of trade with us. Even in that crisis period, the rupee used to be valued at around 40-45. Chidambaram Ji, the rupee today has fallen, it is seriously ailed, you took one dollar to 65 rupees. It is your government and your actions which have devalued the strength of rupee. I am again putting this blame on you, and if you have the courage, please do answer me, that has the money not fallen from where Atal Ji left it at? Is the rupee ailing or not? For how many days will you avoid the truth with nonsense statements..? And they say that the culprit is gold!

Friends, do you know why inflation has shot high? There is a very wise minister in Delhi, you will not find a wiser man than him in the history of India, and the probabilities of having such a wise man in future is very less, he is so intelligent! He said that the poor used to have dry breads earlier but today he eats two veggies a time, and that is why inflation has increased! Friends, the government, which has such ministers who say that inflation is increasing because the poor is feeding himself, such government should not be allowed to be in power for even a minute! You only tell me that is the poor not rightful of having veggies, is it a crime if the poor eats veggies, is the inflation shooting because of this? What is he saying!

Our Prime Minister is a great economist, he is a very knowledgeable person and he is the Chairman of the Planning Commission, and he said that if you are able to spend 26 rupees a day then you are rich! Listen to this Friends, the Prime Minister of our country says that if you spend more than 26 rupees a day then you are rich, you do not fall in the definition of the poor! You tell me that the person who spends 26 rupees a day, is he rich? Do you even get two cups of tea in 26 rupees..? Mr. Prime Minister, you can’t get even 300 grams of onion in 26 rupees and your government says that the person who is able to spend 26 rupees can’t be poor! Those who have this mentality, can’t do any good for the nation!

Friends, the Reserve Bank of India has scolded the Rajasthan government, because since they have bought expensive electricity, the debt of the Rajasthan Electricity Board alone has become Rs. 60,000 crore! RBI has said that within an year you will put Rajasthan in darkness, you have created such a plight!

Friends, the Congress people are experts in the politics of division, they are master in divide and rule policy, while our party is working on the principle of unite and develop. Friends, Congress party is infamous for inducing communal riots across the nation. Congress indulges in the politics of vote bank, it takes away the legal rights of people. I want to say for Bharatiya Janata Party that there is just one religion of the government - India first, nation first, there is just one scripture of the government - Constitution of India, there is just one devotion of the government - patriotism, there is just one work culture of the government – ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, development of everyone together, and there is just one strength of the government - 125 crore Indians!

Friends, BJP has come to you to realize the mantra to make 21st century, the century of India with everyone. Today Rajasthan is the testing ground, tomorrow it will be the whole India. Rajasthan will show the path and thus today from this Suryanagari, the land of sun, Jodhpur I appeal to all the voters of Rajasthan that come vote for development, vote to change the destiny of Rajasthan!

I want to take names of my respected colleagues present on the dais again! Smt. Kamsa Ji Meghwal, Shri Arjun Ji Garg, Honourable Suryakanta Ji, Shri Kailash Ji, Sri Jogaram Ji, Sri Shambhu Singh Ji! Friends, please make all our contestants win so that Rajasthan starts on the path of progress, and I invite you all. Once again I thank all the people of Rajasthan, you have shown unparalleled love for me, and I can’t believe that I have got so much love from Rajasthan. The youth of Rajasthan, we are ready to offer our lives to fulfill your dreams and BJP is committed to fulfill your aspirations!

Speak with me once again,

Bharat Mata ki Jai!  Bharat Mata ki Jai!

Speak with full strength and with closed fists,

Bharat Mata ki Jai!  Bharat Mata ki Jai!

Pahle Matdaan, Phir Jalpaan!

Vote First, Eat Later!

Bharat Mata ki Jai! 

Vande Mataram!
