Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Solemn Session of the National Congress inaugurating the 4th Ordinary Legislative Session of the 56th Legislature - Brasília/DF

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-sessao-solene-do-congresso-nacional-de-inauguracao-da-4a-sessao-legislativa-ordinaria-da-56a-legislatura-brasilia-df

 Brasília/DF, February 2, 2022
 

Firstly, it is a great pleasure to return to this venue. This is a place where I have been present with great friends for 28 years.

Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, 

Dear Senator Rodrigo Pacheco, President of Congress,

My friend Arthur Lira, president of the Chamber,

Dear Luiz Fux, President of the Supreme Court,

Ciro Nogueira, head of the Civil House,

Madam and gentlemen parliamentarians.

Ladies and gentlemen.

 

Faced with the impacts caused by the pandemic, the Federal Government did not deviate from two basic premises: saving lives and protecting jobs, in addition to focusing on those most in need. In the strategy to combat Covid, we strengthened the SUS, by expanding the capacity for specialized care, offering beds, respirators, personal protective equipment, health teams, medicines, among others. As well, we dedicate efforts to acquire and produce the vaccines necessary to immunize the Brazilian population.

All vaccines applied in Brazil were distributed by the Federal Government, after approval from Anvisa, in a total of 400 million doses and we continue to purchase and distribute these doses, to be applied in a non-mandatory manner. All those who so wished got their vaccine. 

In addition to the challenges of the pandemic, Brazil has faced intense rains in recent weeks, causing losses to thousands of families. To minimize the damage caused, we allocated budgetary resources of almost 2 billion reais. The reality of the Brazilian economy was also the focus of the attention and actions of the Federal Government, which continued to adopt measures for a solid, continuous and sustainable economic recovery. 

We implement measures to reduce tax taxes for entrepreneurs and investors. We approved the Business Environment Improvement Law, the New Bidding Law, the BR do Mar Law, the New Bankruptcy Law, the Digital Government Law, the New Legal Framework for Startups and Innovative Entrepreneurship, the New Law of Gas, among others, giving more freedom to those who want to produce.

We note and thank you for the partnership with our senators and federal deputies in these significant advances and deliveries. Furthermore, in this context, we launched the new legal framework for railways, a true revolution in the railway sector. We fulfilled more than 79 requests for the construction of new railways, totaling almost 20,000 km of new tracks, with the expectation of 110 billion reais in investments.

In 21, with an eye on the most vulnerable, we established the Auxílio Brasi program with a minimum value of R$400.00, twice as high as the average of the old Bolsa Família, which was just R$190.00. On this occasion, I would like to thank parliamentarians for approving this proposal.

Through the Brazilian instant payment system, Pix, in just 12 months we promoted the financial inclusion of 40 million people, which saved our population 5 billion reais. We continued the emergency employment and income maintenance program, BEm, which aimed to preserve jobs and workers' income, maintaining more than 12 million jobs. Through these and other initiatives, we obtained a positive balance of more than 3 million new jobs, even during the pandemic.

The year 21 was also notable for the growth of Brazilian agriculture and livestock. With support from the Federal Government, our rural producer continued to be a protagonist in food production, both inside and outside Brazil. Today, producers have the right to own a firearm, throughout their property, to be able to work and protect their assets safely. Thank you for approving this proposal.

We reached the historic mark of more than 238 thousand land titles delivered for agrarian reform settlements and in land regularization areas. The country man, the settler, was no longer enslaved by a government on duty. Today, they have the title to their property, something that will be inherited by their children and grandchildren. Thank you to Parliament for making this possibility possible. The Federal Government transferred land ownership to the States of Amapá and Roraima, a measure awaited for more than three decades. A total area of ​​2.7 million hectares was transferred to Roraima. In Amapá, by the middle of this year, we will reach 1.7 million hectares of land that can be used for agrarian reform, among other economic activities, for these two states. I repeat: 2 million and 700 thousand hectares for Roraima and 1 million and 700 thousand hectares for Amapá.

In the energy sector, we had in particular the production and export of oil, production and consumption of biofuels, the automotive fuel market, iron ore production and wind energy generation. 

We guarantee better living conditions for millions of Brazilians, with actions in the areas of housing, water security and basic sanitation. With huge investments, the Federal Government reached the milestone of 1 million and 200 thousand homes delivered to the population in the last three years. This is the moment when I pay my respects to our dear minister, Rogério Marinho. I draw the attention of people from the Northeast to the completion of the so-called Caminho das Águas, on the northern axis of the São Francisco River integration project, the PISF, bringing water security to Brazilians. More than a decade after the beginning of this project, the necessary physical works were finally delivered to the northeastern population. A serious blow to the drought industry. On the next 8th and 9th, I will be in the northeast with Rogério Marinho, making these deliveries. Where I invite, in particular, our parliamentarians from the Northeast.

 Connectivity was also a milestone in the country in 21, in addition to numerous measures to expand access to the internet and information. Aiming to guarantee social and digital inclusion for all Brazilians, we held a 5G auction, which inserts Brazil into the new global generation of high-speed mobile internet and also brings new business investments, benefiting various sectors of the economy. In addition to the internet for schools, fantastic work by the federal deputy, minister Fábio Faria, on this issue of the 5G auction. Thank you, Fábio Faria. 

The Federal Government also obtained a record number of revenue from auctions of seized goods, something in the order of 360 million. This amount is intended to finance public security policies, combating drug trafficking and modernizing institutions. At this moment, I pay my respects to our valiant Federal Police and, equally valiant, Federal Highway Police. The work done by these intuitions is truly fantastic.

In foreign policy, we continue to work towards building greater and better insertion of the country in global flows of goods, services and capital. Aiming to strengthen competitiveness and generate income. As well as increasingly qualified jobs. We highlight that after 10 years, Brazil returned to occupy a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, the most important body responsible for maintaining peace and security in the world. At this moment, I congratulate Minister Paulo Guedes, Minister Anderson Torres and also Minister Carlos França. 

After 30 years of waiting, we received the news that the members of the Council of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, OECD, unanimously decided to invite Brazil and begin the formal process of joining that organization, which brings together the most advanced economies in the world. To be fair, the first step was taken by Michel Temer's government and now, with the unanimous invitation from 38 countries, Brazil is truly moving towards integration with the CDE.

Our country has the largest partnership, privatization and concessions program in the world. And we reached a volume of more than 800 billion reais in investments, which represents trust and credibility in the country. This month alone, more foreign money entered in dollars than in the year 21. It is unequivocal proof of foreign investor confidence in our country.

We will continue making deliveries to the population, with projects that will bring even more investment to the country's multimodal transport. Optimizing flow, logistics and mobility for everyone, we created the railway mode. I tell parliamentarians that next March, whoever wants it and there is space for everyone, we will spend four days on a train. I just don't know the part yet. Whether it is in Maranhão, Tocantins, Goiás or São Paulo. Everyone is invited to truly inaugurate, together with Tarcísio, the resurgence of the railway sector in Brazil.

We will promote one of the largest auctions in the airport sector, covering 16 airports, with emphasis on the Congonhas terminals, in São Paulo, and Santos Dumont, in Rio de Janeiro. In the port sector, we will have the first privatizations in history, a very important step for the sector.

 Given all these scenarios, several legislative projects deserve the attention and analysis of the National Congress in the year 22, in order to achieve the programs and public policies in progress. Here we highlight electricity bill portability, the new legal framework for guarantees and tax reform. In 22, we will continue working for the development, progress and well-being of our people, always based on our principles, our values ​​and our democracy.

You will never see me come here to this Parliament and ask for regulation of the media and the internet. I hope this is not regulated by any other Power. Our freedom above all. I will also never come here to annul the labor reform approved by this Congress, after all, labor rights remain intact, in article 7 of the Constitution. We will always respect the harmony and independence of Powers. 

We count, once again, on the parliamentarians to approve and implement the projects that Brazil needs. By delivering this presidential message, we reiterate our commitment to Brazil and the Brazilian people. We reaffirm our objective of building a fairer, more prosperous and citizen-oriented country. 

And I reaffirm, gentlemen, I feel like a parliamentarian here today too. Let's not let any of us, whoever is in the Central Plateau, dare to regulate the media. It doesn't matter why, for what intention and objective. Our freedom, freedom of the press, guaranteed in our Constitution, cannot be violated or undermined, by anyone in this country.

Thank you all.
