Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Opening Session of the Brazil-United States Business Seminar in Florida - Miami/Florida

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-senhor-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-a-sessao-de-abertura-de-seminario-empresarial-brasil-estados-unidos-na-florida-miami-florida

Miami, FL/USA, March 9, 2020

Good morning.

I am very happy and honored to be in the United States. I feel more and more at home.

First, a brief history, what the 2018 elections were like. I spent less than a million dollars, especially because I had no resources. We had everything against us, but we had unshakable faith in the Brazilian people.

We believed that the time had come for a radical change. The left could no longer continue dictating the rules of a great country like Brazil. And we had an example at our side that we didn't want to follow, Venezuela.

Brazil was also successful, because its Armed Forces were a great ally, as one of the pillars of democracy and freedom in our country. Our Armed Forces were not co-opted by party politics, as were the Armed Forces of Venezuela.

When they saw that they could no longer stop us, they tried to assassinate us. They were unsuccessful. We won the elections and, for the first time in the history of Brazil, a team was formed, a group of ministers committed to the interests of their country and, also, the greatest values ​​of a society: freedom and democracy.

It was not easy. The change of paradigms, old customs, old groups that thought only about themselves and not about the future of their homeland.

We won the first year with many sacrifices. We had the support of Parliament in the pension reform, I mean, the mother of reforms. Two others appear ahead. I spoke briefly yesterday with the president of the Chamber, Rodrigo Maia. And he said that, despite some friction, which is very normal to happen in politics, the Chamber will do its part, seeking the best administrative and tax reform.

After all, Brazil cannot continue to be one of the most difficult countries to do business in. We want to simplify, reduce bureaucracy and deregulate.

We have already taken some measures, but we know they are not enough. We walk this way. We have a still strong internal enemy, the left. We fought hard. We know that we cannot give them respite or opportunity. Otherwise, they come back. How they returned to the important country for the world south of our beloved South America. 

The key word, the most important word in any relationship, whether between two people or two great nations, like Brazil-United States, is trust.

Over the last few decades, there has been distrust on the part of left-wing Brazilian governments towards important countries such as the United States. That has changed. Even in the simplest things, I say it has changed. 

We now have a country where the government respects the family. A government that owes loyalty to its people. A government that values ​​its Armed Forces and a government that believes in God. This is the great antidote against the left, which seeks at all times, just in the struggle for power, to enslave its population. Brazil is increasingly preparing itself to face these challenges.

On the economic issue, as I said, trust above all. Honor commitments. Seeking legal backup and guarantees is our objective. We have in the person of our Minister of Economy, a man known inside and outside Brazil, Mr. Paulo Guedes. And we are loyal to his economic policies and seek to implement them in every way. 

Any of our ministers are qualified and qualified to face any challenges. And we are showing that we are on the right path.

Right now here, in the United States, physically, with some of our government, we are demonstrating this well. I have already had contact with other American authorities inside and outside Brazil. I am very happy with this contact. 

I was also very happy to have had the honor of participating in the dinner with Mr Donald Trump, last Saturday. We deal with many things. Some in a reserved manner, such as the issue of our Venezuela.

And I have been telling everyone, it is important that we do everything possible to restore normality in Venezuela. Which is not easy, given the level of moral and political degradation in the country.

 Now, we must also fight so that other countries in our South America do not experience what our Venezuelan brothers are unfortunately experiencing. How can this be achieved? Bringing us closer, reestablishing trust, increasingly seeking to implement what is possible between us. 

I recognize the difference, a great economic and military distance, between Brazil and the United States, but we are increasingly showing up so that these distances can be reduced, and the North-South Axis can be reestablished. Brazil is important for the United States, just as the United States is very important for our Brazil.

 Therefore, gentlemen, what I bring to you is a different Brazil. A Brazil in which you can trust your Chief Executive and his team of ministers. In Brazil, where the vast majority of the population fights, yes, bravely so that their will is truly the one that must be followed by the majority of politicians in our Brazil.

Therefore, I can only thank everyone for this opportunity, for this welcome and for this demonstration of affection and affection towards our Brazil.

Thank you very much to everyone. We want America big and we want Brazil big.
