Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Official Opening Ceremony of Agrishow 2019 - Ribeirão Preto/SP

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-cerimonia-de-abertura-oficial-da-agrishow-2019-ribeirao-preto-sp

Ribeirão Preto/SP, April 29, 2019

Good afternoon, as Dória said, I will speak with emotion and from the heart.

First, I thank God for being alive and also Him, who, through the hands of many of you, entrusted me with the Presidency of the Republic. It's also a source of pride, but obviously a lot, a lot of responsibility. But certainly together with you, firstly, and then, having a wonderful political framework within the Executive and Legislative branches, we will fulfill this mission.

And I'm proud to be back here in this city. No matter where I was last year, I was among you.

What do I want as chief executive? In fact, I want to sum it up in a simple sentence, not to disturb those who produce. We want and are taking the State off the back of those who produce, those who invest and large entrepreneurs and agribusiness, agriculture is one of the sectors that is working and has been for a long time and we must value those who work in this area.

A little while ago they said here that the push for agriculture came under the Médici government, Embrapa was also born during the Médici government, and during the Médici government we increased our territorial sea from twelve to two hundred nautical miles, just one of the few actions taken by governments at that time.

As Dória said here, God willing, we will be together in China to undo that image that part of the media created against me as if I were an enemy of the Chinese. I am an enemy, yes, it is the government that in the past did business with ideological bias at the forefront, that no longer exists, we have a unique opportunity to change the destiny of the nation.

Who had the freedom that I had to choose 22 ministers indicated by technical and objective criteria... What would become of our dear Teresa Cristina if our Minister of the Environment had a profile of others who occupied that portfolio until recently? Poor Teresa Cristina. Today she is proud to be alongside Ricardo Sales, who has already joined the PSDB and also NOVO, a party that fully supports us within the Chamber on the issue of pension reform. And one of the measures taken, studied, with him is to clean up IBAMA and ICMBio. When he announced a few days ago four members of the ICMBio front, four soldiers from the Military Police, I was thrilled, because they were people who had a past with the Forestry Battalion or similar people who were alongside you who produce. What I said to Ricardo Sales, and I didn't need to say it, he has already been taking steps in this regard: there has to be inspection, yes, but the man in the field has to have the pleasure of receiving the inspector and, at first, be guided, so he can comply with the laws, that's what we want. And, even more so, as you know, around 40% of the fines applied in the field, largely served to feed back Shiite inspection, which sought to serve only niches that did not help the environment and, much less, those that produce.

When we spoke and decided a while ago, with Dória, with Teresa Cristina, to take CEAGESP to another location and that, as the São Paulo government said just now, become a technology center, we want that, we have in our midst, in our group of ministers, coincidentally, a São Paulo native from Bauru, our astronaut minister Marcos Pontes, who has already been to Israel twice, has been around the world looking for technology, although for the most part we have a lot of to offer to other countries. So, this marriage is more than perfect. Our ministers talk to each other, no one has to worry about what their party is, what their option is, their religion, their gender, to talk to the minister and be very well attended to what he wants for the good of his municipality, state or Union.

We are also taking measures on the issue of infrastructure. Very advanced studies for the modernization or privatization of ports, as well as the issue of drainage, axes, roads. We are ensuring that BR-163 is completed this year, a highway that began under the Geisel government and will end under our government, a project carried out by our Brazilian Army. Why our Army? In addition to the excellence and quality, the price is very low, also because we don't have the resources, and it is a much cheaper work. So, our Army is to be congratulated. As well, João Dória, when you say that CEAGESP will be a technological post, we are also working together so that part of Campo de Marte, we will build the largest Military College in Brazil, a quality school recognized in all the states we have , so it will also be a hallmark of our government together with our Minister of Defense, our military commander of the Southeast, our Army commander, our Air Force, among others, for the conception of this objective.

You, in the countryside, need help from some sectors, not just for the State to hinder you, you need help.

I would like to thank our dear Rubem Novaes, president of Banco do Brasil, who brings R$1 billion to invest in this area. I just appeal, Rubem - allow me to make a joke here, right? - I just appeal to your heart, to your patriotism, so that these interest rates, given that you appear to be a real Christian, fall a little more. I'm sure our prayers will touch your heart. We will also have another 1 billion for rural insurance.

And a very important thing that, in part, we are taking together with Nabhan Garcia: our legal security in the field. Private property is sacred, period.

Yesterday I spent approximately an hour and a half with the President of the Chamber, at my residence, discussing various topics. And the issue of agribusiness entered the agenda. Next week he will put on the agenda in the Chamber a bill that aims to ensure that the possession of firearms for rural producers is used throughout the perimeter of their property. And also a project of ours that will be sent to the Chamber, it will give something to talk about, but it is a way that we can help combat violence in the countryside, is to ensure that, when defending yourself, your private property or your life , the good citizen enters the exclusion of illegality, that is, he responds but there is no punishment. This is the way we have to proceed so that the other side, which insists on breaking the law, fears you, fears the good citizen and not the other way around.

In this legal certainty, the issue of agrarian reform without ideological bias, and which begins on idle lots, and that there is a conciliation agreement in judicialized areas. So, basically, it is the beginning of the government, still completing four months, it is a very short time, but I humbly repeat, since I am one of you, we have never had, in the history of Brazil, an opportunity to have a government, to have a large part of the Chamber and the Senate aligned with the greater interests of our Brazil. Together we will place Brazil in the prominent place it deserves.

Thank you very much to all of you.

Brazil above all and our God above all!
