Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the inauguration ceremony of the Ramal do Agreste - Sertânia/PE

October 21, 2021

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cerimonia-de-inauguracao-do-ramal-do-agreste-sertania-pe

Good afternoon my Pernambuco, good afternoon my Brazil.

 

It is a great satisfaction to be among you. There are certain things that you only learned about because I became President, given our openness, simplicity and commitment to the truth.

 

I confess that there are certain things that I didn't even know existed, I confess that I didn't know that the Ministry of Tourism was doing works, started doing them in earnest in our government. In the past, the money went elsewhere, it didn't go to works. In tourism alone, we have more than 3,000 works in Brazil.

 

In Rogério Marinho's ministry there are more than 25 thousand works, Tarcísio's a few hundred. But the whole of Brazil is practically one big construction site. This is not a virtue on our part, it is an obligation.

 

We must return every penny collected from you, since everything is paid for by you, it must be returned to yourselves.

 

State-owned companies that in the past made losses, in 2015 they made losses for state-owned companies, in 2020 they made profits. The difference is around 100 billion reais, money that would go down the drain, would go to corruption.

 

How many times, not long ago, every week did we follow 2, 3 corruption scandals in Brazil. Petrobras, Correios, Caixa Econômica, BNDES and Ministries. Our homeland was a sea of ​​corruption. And this money came from you and almost none of it was intended for the good of the population.

 

Since during the campaign, although during the campaign everyone said they won't steal, everyone says they will fight corruption, everyone says they are honest and everyone says they will change, but after it arrives, it's like pasta in Hot water.

 

It's easier to stay on the other side, on the same side as always, we chose the more difficult path, but we know that at the end of the line comes gratitude, comes recognition, comes your affection. And the greatest affection that we see are the changes in colors seen on the streets of Brazil, increasingly yellow green symbolizing hope, progress and honesty, leaving behind the red of corruption, neglect and regression. This will no longer change, increasingly yellow-green for all of us.

 

Do you remember in 2018 I went to the Globo headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, there I showed them 3 words, although they asked me to show them, you know, a response that resembles an animal that lives in a not very healthy place, asked what It was written on my hand and I showed it: God, Country, Family. Words that were forgotten in our Brazil.

 

We spent 14 years with that red party by our side, God passed by or rather they left God by our side. For them, there never was a God, I respect anyone who is an atheist, as long as they respect anyone who has a religion, but there they never respected anyone, the family became the gathering of any two things and not what God taught us.

 

The treatment of children, that's what you have the most here, was the most despicable possible. At all costs, they shoved the damned gender ideology down our throats. It wasn't easy to fight these types of people, but we began, with God's grace, to show Brazil who we were, what we wanted and where we could get.

 

First is to work by example, we have been practically 30 months, a little longer, 35 months without any reports of corruption. I make it very clear that this is not a virtue, it is an obligation. It's not easy to be president, but knowing who we are working for, like these kids who are here, any sacrifice is not enough.

 

We have a very well chosen ministry and I am grateful that they have accepted this mission, as it is not easy to be a minister either. Imagine a Minister of Health, who took on being a minister in the middle of a pandemic, it's a lot of courage on his part, a lot of desire to get it right, a commitment to picking something up and trying to fix it.

 

Queiroga took over a ministry a few months ago, took the contract already in progress but gave all Brazilians the vaccine voluntarily, we gave the vaccine to all of you, I repeat, voluntarily, because above all I respect freedom, the greatest good of a Nation.

 

We have allocated billions of resources to combat Covid. There was no state, no municipality that was left behind, regardless of who or what party its governor or mayor was.

 

Many governors and many mayors adopted the policy of “stay at home, we'll see about the economy later”, they almost broke Brazil, we serve federal, state and municipal public servants. In the states and municipalities we advanced resources aimed at reducing revenue, states and municipalities ended up with a surplus, I don't know of a single state or a single municipality that has delayed the payment of the thirteenth.

 

Together with the business community and especially those from small and micro businesses, we provided resources through a program called Pronampe and well, so that in an agreement between employer and employee, part of the resources coming from the Federal Government, we prevented 11 million jobs from ceasing to exist. in Brazil.

 

The informal workers, those who were not civil servants and did not have a formal contract, lived from day to day, often working morning and afternoon to be able to eat at night, these were the most affected. Governors and mayors decreed lockdown, restrictive measures and curfews, but they didn't worry about whether that citizen had something to eat at night. We gave emergency aid, your money, not mine, the amount spent last year was equivalent to 13 years of family allowance.

 

The emergency aid is coming to an end, we have already agreed on the new value of the family allowance, which is now called Auxilio Brasil. The average Bolsa Família was 192 reais and there were many people who received 40, 60, 80 per month, we agreed that the new Bolsa Família will be 400 reais, for everyone, without exception.

 

The consequences of “staying at home” in an attempt to break the economy, we are paying a high price with inflation in food, fuel and cooking gas prices, the world has also been suffering from this in a more serious way than us. In the United Kingdom, gas inflation reached 300% in 2 months, in Europe as a whole it reached 200%, the price of fuel abroad is double that of Brazil.

 

We know that this is another country, but a large part of what we consume in fuel, or rather a considerable part, we import and we have to pay the price abroad. We then decided, the numbers will be presented in the coming days, we will serve self-employed truck drivers, around 750 thousand truck drivers will receive help to compensate for the increase in diesel.

 

We do this because it is through them that goods and food arrive in the 4 corners of the country. These are difficult times, but we will not leave anyone behind. We regret all of this but we do our best, so much so that I can say that Brazil is one of the few countries that suffered least from the economic issue during Covid and is one of the countries that is coming out of this crisis better too.

 

This year alone, more than 2 million formal jobs have been created, we are coming out of the crisis, we know that next year is an election year, those who have never done anything for the nation just attack us, but we are calm with our conscience in peace that we are doing our best.

 

As Senator Bezerra said just now, what was this CPI installed in Brasília for? They didn't find a single trace of corruption in our government, they just attack all the time and who would have thought, nowadays, Renan Calheiros is the subject of the Brazilian press. A senator who has not even done anything for his state of Alagoas, let alone for Brazil and that guy, that guy, has been saying that he wants Renan Calheiros to preside over the Senate, with his election as president of the republic.

 

The Brazilian people know what they went through over these 14 years, which was a government basically involved in corruption from the first to the last day of their governments, they know what they don't want, to tell you that we had many, many unfinished works, Now the PT was really very good, it finished excellent works outside of Brazil with our money from BNDES. It's a subway in Caracas, a port in Cuba, an airport in Angola and so many works in communist and socialist countries, we don't want that anymore for our Brazil.

 

We want, whoever is the president elected next year, someone who has more than just speech, the commitment to take this country forward.

 

Coming to the end, we see certain countries around the world that have nothing but have a people living, in addition to harmony, economically very well, why can't Brazil do the same? Since we have everything here, this involves political renewal, it is renewal of the Executive, renewal of the Legislative, renewal of the Judiciary as well.

 

Don't forget, whoever is elected president next year will nominate 2 more names for the Federal Supreme Court at the beginning of 23rd year. We have a way to change this Nation, we, I mean you and I, we all, we are all in the same boat, we are all responsible for the destinies of our Nation and not just one man.

 

But I tell you, they say that a swallow doesn't make a summer, but every summer begins with a swallow and I thank God for my life, also for the mission he gave me in being at the head of the Federal Executive Branch, it's an honor, It is a satisfaction, it is a joy to be among you. I have always done what I am doing here today among you.

 

Only those who are among you know the needs of their people. So I thank God once again for this moment, our future belongs to him, only he can take me out of this presidential chair and whatever he wants I will do.

 

Thank you very much to all of you, Brazil above all, God above all.
