Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Emergency Aid Extension Ceremony - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-cerimonia-de-prorrogacao-do-auxilio-emergencial-palacio-do-planalto

Palácio do Planalto, June 30, 2020

A strong trio. The difficult task of complementing the social and political discourse of Onyx Lorenzoni, associated with the technical and economic discourse of Paulo Guedes. I am very happy with this team of ministers I have. Thank you to you, as well as to the other 21 ministers.

Dear Davi Alcolumbre, President of the Senate,

Dear Rodrigo Maia, President of the Chamber,

            It's a pleasure to have you here. It is a sign that together we can do a lot for our homeland. You are here today. God willing, I will be there next week, at our National Congress, sanctioning a bill that changes the National Traffic Code, where the driver's license goes from being valid for 5 to 10 years, as well as increasing the number of points for losing your license, from 20 to 40. This is very welcome among truck drivers, bus drivers, taxi drivers, app drivers, among others. God willing, we will have other moments together for the good of all of us.

            Onyx said that I was in Ceilândia, Taguatinga. Yes, but I have been to many more places. Not challenging anyone, but bringing courage, showing the humble people that they have a president who wants to be among them, wants to face the problems at their side.

            I want to invite, from now on, Alcolumbre and Maia, on my next trip, as I had the pleasure of being just now, in Araguari and, upon returning, we landed in a small village, unexpectedly. There were about 30 little houses there. And we saw a lot of humble people. In fact, coincidentally, there was a chapel where, once a month, the priest would be present. At that moment, the priest had just arrived at the village and I participated in the beginning of the mass he said, accompanied by an evangelical pastor who also participated in that moment. So, the simplicity of these people really gives us more and more strength to fight for them.

            And there talking, Rodrigo, Alcolumbre, with those humble people, at least half, Paulo Guedes, dear Pedro Guimarães, received this emergency aid of R$600, now completing the third month. Their satisfaction, their gratitude. It's money that isn't mine, it's money that belongs to all of us Brazilians who pay taxes.

            And this was only possible thanks to the sensitivity of our ministers, led by Paulo Guedes, as well as the Brazilian Parliament, which voted quickly on this issue, because they were in a hurry. It was not just the 38 million invisible people, or informal people, almost as many, from other categories, including people who received an average of R$200 from Bolsa Família, who benefited.

            Obviously, all of this is not just to keep the economy functioning, alive, but also to provide a living for these people. We here, who are present, know that R$600 is very little, but for those who have nothing, this is a lot.

            And this work, this way of seeking resources at a time when the country needed it, to serve those most in need, is what makes us proud of being able to help, of spending resources to be able to serve those in need.

            And this extension now, at a good time, via decree - but if it were via bill it would also have the necessary speed from the Brazilian Chamber and Senate. As Paulo Guedes said, there are two more installments, and we hope that, at the end of it, the economy will already be reacting, so that we can return to normality as quickly as possible. Obviously, always taking care of the greatest good of all of us, which is our lives.

            So, at this moment, I thank everyone, not just the Chamber, the Senate, or Paulo Guedes' team; to everyone who participated in this project, which is the biggest social project in the world, for sure! And as Paulo Guedes rightly said: “no nation has spent so much effort to serve those most in need than our beloved Brazil”.

            So, thank you very much to all of you and see you again, God willing.
