Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Ceremony celebrating the 74th anniversary of the creation of the Parachute Infantry Brigade

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-a-cerimonia-de-celebracao-do-74deg-aniversario-de-criacao-da-brigada-de-infantaria-paraquedista

Rio de Janeiro/RJ, November 23, 2019

Yesterday, presenter Gugu Liberato left us, for decades he left his mark throughout Brazil.

Always happy, he was full of joy and information, may God welcome his soul and comfort his family, friends and fans.

Our Parachute Infantry Brigade,

Our Armed Forces,

And the Presidency of the Republic, in recognition of this professional, father and patriot, pays homage to Gugu Liberato with our touch of silence.

Honorable Ministers of State present here,

Parachutists Heleno Augusto, Fernando and Ramos,

My leader in the Chamber, Major Vitor Hugo, Special Forces Paratroopers,

Madam parachutist state deputy Alana,

Mr Mayor of Rio de Janeiro,

Former commanders of our eternal Parachute Infantry Brigade,

My dear general Acrisio Figueira,

And General Frederico Farias Sodré de Castro,

My last Commanders of the Parachute Brigade,

And from the eighth GAC PQDT,

 You, in part, have responsibility in view of the role you now perform in Brasília.

The training and the moments I was here in this brigade, when I was on the verge of entering politics, marked my life, today is another day of celebration and joy for all of us paratroopers.

We who one day put on our maroon beret on our heads, our silver brevê on our chest and our  brown boots  on our feet , we finally marry the future of our country where above all are our democracy, our freedom and our absolute obedience to the Brazilian people, largely represented here.

I've said it before and I'll say it again: for the parachutist there is no insurmountable obstacle. We always jump from the plane ramp and now we parachutists climb the Central Plateau ramp through democracy and popular will. This is a source of honor and pride for all of us. What we learned here will forever remain in the soul of every parachutist man and woman.

At this moment I thank God for my life and the vast majority of you who through his hands entrusted me with the mandate of President of the Republic.

 If today I am the head of the Nation, I guide the destiny of two hundred million inhabitants, as well as as Supreme Chief of the Armed Forces, I am aware that I arrived here given the grace of God and for everything I am grateful to all of you, because I would never get to where I am alone, just as each of us achieves our goals always having true friends by our side, to whom we have eternal gratitude, to my Brigade eternal gratitude, for having reached where I am.

My friends, thank you all very much and respectfully, as football is part of the culture and soul of the Brazilian people, today we are all Flamengo.

A hug to everyone.

Mission given, mission accomplished.

Brazil, above all.

Jungle.
