Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Thanksgiving Service - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-culto-de-acao-de-gracas-palacio-do-planalto

Palácio do Planalto, December 17, 2019

It's great to be among friends. Even better when these friends have God in their hearts. We all have a story. Sorry, few have a second life. Thank God for this second life.

I also understand that, through your hands, today I am the head of the Executive. I may be the head of the most important Power in the Republic, but the man in Brazil is God.

I've read the entire Bible. By coincidence, he was a young lieutenant, captain, on the border. It took me seven years to read it. One of the passages, because a lot of things remain, a man waited seven plus seven, fourteen years for his wife, I spent twice that, 28 years inside Parliament, I also met my wife there.

I ask God to never abandon us. Humility must be present among us. And, even more so, gratitude. No one gets anywhere alone, nor will they stay there if they don't have friends and like-minded people to pursue that goal.

I make a request to God: that I deliver, to whoever succeeds me, a much better Brazil than the one I got in January of this year. I knew it wouldn't be easy, but I knew I could count on valuable people by my side. People who, at first, in that first step, wore my shirt, my party's shirt. My party is Brazil.

We shouldn't have ambitions for positions, they are temporary. I saw here former deputies, old parliamentarians, young parliamentarians. Oh, if you only knew the power you have. I'm sorry, parliamentarians, many don't know the power they have yet. The power to change the world and transform our Brazil.

I believe, as there was, just now, a colleague speaking, talking about numbers. Numbers are important, they fuel the economy. But the love, the patriotism, the dedication, are priceless. My parliamentary friends, we have everything we need to change Brazil.

During the four years leading up to the elections, when I decided to run in it, I always mentioned my time in Israel. Look at what they don't have and see what they are. Look at what Brazil has and what Brazil doesn't have. Coincidence or not, last Sunday there was an event in Israel. Present were Benjamin  Netanyahu, Eduardo Bolsonaro and Admiral Segovia, from Apex. We opened our business office in Jerusalem.

I've been talking to leaders from the Arab World. We are working to achieve our goal. Just a campaign commitment is not enough. We must do it so that everyone understands its real objective. Mine is loyalty to God.

Gentlemen,

My ladies,

Brethren, Christians,

Brazilians,

My dream is your dream. We will achieve this goal. We want, and it is our parliamentary duty, to produce happiness. And we will succeed, with loyalty, with ethics, with religion, respecting others, voting independently, listening to your conscience, having your understanding of the matter, we will revolutionize Brazil.

I repeat, no one has what we have. God was very generous to us. For me, the triple, in addition to the second life, a family, the basis of society. In the most difficult moment of my life, I just asked God not to leave my seven-year-old daughter an orphan. The rest, with friends, with real Brazilians and with God in our hearts, we will overcome the obstacles.

For all of you, at this moment, it is a reason for honor, pride and satisfaction to see you, together with me, publicly accepting Jesus in this House that was in need of His word.

Brazil has changed. We have a government, a president who is loyal to his people, who recognizes his military and who believes in God. That may not be much, but for us, it's everything. Together, we will be even more proud of our beloved Brazil.

Thank you very much to all of you. And God bless our Brazil.
