Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Launch Ceremony of the Abrace o Marajó Program - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-solenidade-de-lancamento-do-programa-abrace-o-marajo-palacio-do-planalto

Palácio do Planalto, March 3, 2020

Sirs,

Ladies,

Dear Damares, in whose name I greet you all.

It is a pleasure, it is a great joy to be at the head of a government where all its members are committed to leaving no one behind.

Who is this piece of land called Marajó, that we hear little about, like so many other regions across Brazil? It is a piece of land the size of the state of Rio de Janeiro, which has a population similar to the state of Roraima. Also at the moment, dear Admiral Bento, our Minister of Mines and Energy, suffering due to the lack of construction of a line, but this is not yet a reality because, in the past, they did not have responsibility when they demarcated at will and at the taste of international interests large indigenous reserves and a huge number of quilombolas. We are fighting against this, not to abandon our Indians or quilombolas, but to integrate them into society. And by taking this measure, we can bring progress to all regions of Brazil.

I want to make a confession here, dear Éder Mauro, my colleague from Pará who gave me strength there and, Éder, it was the only state, apart from the nine states in the Northeast region where I didn't win. But this is not a demerit, it is part of the democratic game. And we don't have any ambition, we don't have any difference with states where we were victorious or not. Because, Damares, I owe my life to a miracle of God and the election, another miracle. Nobody could believe that someone from among the people, without resources, without means, with a large part of the media against it, could reach the situation we are in at the moment.

And arriving here, dear Braga Netto, my youngest Chief Minister of the Civil House, a general of the Brazilian Army, it is a mission, and we will fulfill our mission. And I also said a while ago, at the meeting of ministers, what a pleasure it is to be in this government, where every week we have good news, where we have gone fourteen months without any accusation, any accusation about corruption. It is already a record in the history of Brazil.

For those who don't know, here, Damares received yet another title: “queen of shrimp”? Miss Shrimp. From Éder, just now, she received the title of ambassador. You will soon arrange a marriage, Damares. Look, if it's on Ilha do Marajó, I promise to be the godfather.

And, also, I want to make a confession here, my fellow deputies and senators. When we were forming our Ministry, the female representatives of the Chamber and Senate, Arolde de Oliveira, approached us and asked us to create the Ministry of Women, Family and Human Rights. A ministry that, at the moment, left us very worried, not least because of its importance, as well as who would be in front. So, I want a confession, I don't know if Damares knows, right? Who was your godmother? She's on your side there. The person who suggested Damares' name was my wife, Michelle. It was not a political indication. They are evangelicals, I, in particular, knew a lot about Damares' work within the Chamber, my wife knew her work outside the Chamber, so, obviously, a wife's request is not a request, it is a mission. So, Damares really adapted perfectly to our Ministry of Women, Family and Human Rights. 

And what do I have to say to my friends, to Marajó’s brothers? As Éder announced just now, here, exemptions from ICMS, I had talked to him up there a while ago, too, that I was going to take steps with our Minister of Economy, so that we could study what we can do to exempt , whenever possible, this region. It would be something like, dear Caixa president, Pedro Guimarães, something similar to the Zona Franca, a free zone, there, in Marajó. I'm sure something will come out because, after all, we have to integrate the whole of Brazil. And an integrated Brazil will truly make us feel the satisfaction of a duty accomplished.

So, to all of you here today, especially our brothers from Marajó, I want to see if, if Damares invites me, I will go with her on the next trip to Marajó. I confess that I heard little about Marajó throughout my life, which is normal, I heard a lot at school, during the military period, where they taught what had to be taught, then teaching what did not interest our Brazilian people. So, Marajó, we are going to adopt him, Damares has already adopted him and we are going to adopt him in whatever way possible, on the part of the government, to integrate you more and more into society. And make sure that other means can really integrate with you. I believe that Tourism too, Marcelo Álvaro Antônio is here, Tourism is also another activity that can be very well developed in this region.

So, to everyone, especially Damares, thank you very much for the opportunity and we are very happy to be embracing our brothers from Marajó today.
