Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Ceremony Commemorating the Centenary of the Convention of Ministers and Churches Assembly of God in Pará

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cerimonia-alusiva-ao-centenario-da-convencao-de-ministros-e-igrejas-assembleia-de-deus-no-para

Ananindeua/PA, August 18, 2021

Being among those who have God in their hearts, I thank God for my life and for the mission of being at the head of the Executive for the destinies of this Nation.

Dear Pastor Gilberto Marques, Pastor José Wellington, Brothers. Today we can say that we have a President of the Republic who believes in God, who respects his military, who defends his family and owes loyalty to his people.

Sometimes I ask myself: how did I get here? Where do the forces to resist come from? Where will this great Nation go? With many problems that we have faced that were not foreseen. The pandemic and its consequences, a water shortage crisis, the likes of which have not been seen in the history of Brazil.

People have suffered from this, there is inflation, there is unemployment, there are really distressing days. What can I say to you, with faith, with will, with belief, we can overcome these obstacles.

The Government has been trying hard. We have a government that respects the Brazilian Constitution and at no time closed commerce, at no time decreed a curfew, a Government that did not close churches, a government that respects the laws, respects its people and reaffirms that the north of the destination of our homeland always with him at the forefront, we will go in the direction where these people wish.

I came to the Presidency borrowing a biblical passage, John 8.32, obviously perfected for us, passengers here on earth, "And you will know the truth and the truth will set you free".

We have a President who may sometimes stumble over his words, may sometimes not be very happy with his positions, but you have a President who speaks the truth above all else.

A Government that does not deceive its people, that does not try to use soft, smooth words in order to achieve an objective that does not interest its Nation. We have everything to be a fantastic homeland, no one in this whole world has what we have.

This land is blessed, mineral wealth, biodiversity, drinking water, fertile fields, everything, we lack nothing. Perhaps what we lacked, and I have the strength, thank God, is the courage to make decisions. 

In military life I learned that worse than a poorly made decision is indecision, I have my advisors, when making decisions I try to listen especially to the oldest, the most experienced, because I know that anything can happen from my pen. 

I knew the mission was going to be difficult, I knew the difficulties, I knew that almost everything we do goes through the Brazilian Parliament. We have had a good response from Parliament, we know that the other power alongside the Federal Supreme Court, one or another person would hinder us, but we believe that this Supreme Court, as well as the Parliament, as well as the Executive, is slowly changing.

More than a commitment to you, a commitment to my conscience in nominating one of the two vacancies for the Federal Supreme Court, a brother of ours, terribly evangelical.

I've been talking a lot with Pastor André Mendonça because his life will also change, his responsibilities will increase. He will make difficult decisions too, but I made a request to him or rather, a mission I gave him and he committed to fulfilling it.

Every first session of the week at the Federal Supreme Court, he will ask to speak and the work will begin after a prayer. You can be sure, God will be more present in that Institution. Where the word of God comes in, harmony comes in, peace comes in, prosperity comes in.

In 2023, whoever is elected president in 2022 will appoint two more members to that court in the first half of the year. I'm sure we're going to change Brazil. We know that here everyone has to look for all possible ways to achieve their goal, for the good of our country and whatever may be impossible for us, we know that for God everything is possible.

Dear José Wellington and Gilberto Marques, I repeat, I knew it wouldn't be easy. But we have wonderful people who can accompany us and discern what we are doing.

They asked me where I would be on September 7th, I told them, I will be wherever the people are, as I have done since my first term as councilor in Rio de Janeiro, also throughout my 7 terms as federal deputy and also now as President of the Republic.

I visited the most humble during the pandemic, I couldn't take refuge in the Palácio da Alvorada, with all the comfort, without knowing how the people were feeling. And only those who are alongside the people can know their feelings. I know what each one of you goes through, I suffer with your suffering, but what comforts me is the possibility of finding a way to comfort you.

Brazil is a great nation, with it we will overcome obstacles, with them we will seek happiness here on earth and I end by summarizing several books that I have read, fear nothing, not even death, except eternal death.

What we do here on earth is our passport to eternal life, thank you all very much for this opportunity, for this moment, for this honorable invitation and I ask God, like every day, that he continues to enlighten us and giving us more than wisdom, also the courage and faith to not give up and win.

Thank you very much to all of you, our Brazil above all and God above all.
