Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Ceremony Allusive to National Volunteer Day - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-solenidade-alusiva-ao-dia-nacional-do-voluntariado-palacio-do-planalto

Aug 28, 2021

Good afternoon everyone, I am very happy, I was praised by the first lady.

Ladies and gentlemen, who has never been helped by someone?

As a politician here, among you, were we not helped at a certain point in our lives during the elections, Carla Zambelli? Who right? and what comes after that without charge? Gratitude.

Obviously we always thank God for getting where we are. I have always said, Paulo Guedes, we are privileged to have a unique moment of being able to serve our country and serve others.

The Brazilian in itself is a person who is a volunteer, at the beginning of our Government, a team of us went to Lebanon, led by former president Michel Temer, to take some donations for a difficult time that those people were facing due to an accident, or incident that exploded, killing people and causing serious material problems in that country.

We had volunteers in the Brumadinho issue, almost all of our ministers were involved.

Last Sunday a team of Brazilians left for Haiti after yet another catastrophe in that very poor country, our KC 390 plane left carrying the material and qualified people to bring comfort to our brothers in Haiti, who here have never been helped and did not help ?

It's great to be comforted in difficult times that we've all been through and can go through again and the gratitude when we're helped, dear Pedro, is something fantastic. When you see that you are being helped, it doesn't matter who you are and you know that this help comes from that person's heart?

I feel proud of Mrs. Michelle's work. It's her job, it's rewarding but it also takes hours that could be being enjoyed given the position she occupies, but she prefers to always be at the side of those people in need.

We have Robson here, Rubens, his life as an athlete is a winner. I was also an athlete in the Armed Forces for some time in military pentathlon and my reward, Paulo Guedes, was an orange and a mariola after training, this was the food I had, different from the others who were not athletes, but I wanted to achieve an objective, I wanted to receive a medal, I wanted to defend your Army, your Armed Forces when I was an athlete, that is very gratifying, now it is not easy for you to win.

He, like me, was helped and we achieved our objective at that moment, he is a young man who still has a lot of future ahead of him, as I said just now he is being helped by our Brazilian Army, this Army that has never failed its people at times, Ramos, more difficult than he went through and it is an Army that will never lack for its people.

Why can I say this? It's not because I'm President, the head of the Armed Forces, it's because I spent fifteen years within our Brazilian Army and I know what these people think, I know their responsibilities, which are enormous, in certain moments that history really makes it count in the heart and soul of these people to help their neighbors.

So this Pátria Voluntária program that was born recently in our Government, led by Mrs. Michelle, with all due respect, is my wife, but it is a phenomenal job, obviously helped by a small team that is at her side.

Brazil is proud of this, proud of this work, this voluntary work for the good of others without expecting anything from the other side other than obviously what is worth more than a medal, which is gratitude.

Thank you very much.
