Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the signing ceremony of the Technical Cooperation Agreement for the integration of the “Corpus927” and “The Constitution and the Supreme” systems into the Legislation Portal - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-a-cerimonia-de-assinatura-do-acordo-de-cooperacao-tecnica-para-integracao-dos-sistemas-201ccorpus927201d-e-201ca-constituicao-e-o-supremo201d-ao-portal-da-legislacao-palacio-do-planalto

Palácio do Planalto, June 25, 2020

Minister Dias Toffoli, Federal Supreme Court.

Dear Noronha, friend of the STJ.

Ministers, gentlemen and ladies.

It was a pleasant memory for Toffoli to say that he advised me in... not in Jorge's name but in a person I trust for this work and the dynamics of the President of the Republic are enormous. I often do a diagonal reading of what I'm signing and, sometimes, just the syllabus. And I'll go even further, sometimes only the SAJ's word comes in and doesn't justify my signature so that I can absolve myself of responsibility, so I'm grateful for Dias Toffoli's advice. Yes, I took this issue into account, especially because there were some volunteers who presented themselves at that time and Jorge's choice was fundamental and he continues to accumulate them to this day so that we can have legal peace of mind in our work.

Toffoli says that Noronha knows how to add up but I think I'm older than Noronha when it comes to the Banco do Brasil account, I've had it since March 1973, am I older or not? (...) So I'm older.

So I would like to say a special thank you for this cooperation, especially to the servers who have a truly enormous job! I often see you working there, sometimes on Saturday and Sunday until the wee hours of the morning, to seek solutions and understandings because time is running out and this portal, this application will now help a lot not only with our work but also with those of others who seek us out to request or enforce some standard.

This understanding, this cooperation, clearly reveals a moment we are experiencing here in Brazil.

I always say when I'm with President Toffoli, also with Alcolumbre and Maia who are presidents of the Chamber and the Senate that we are privileged people; our understanding, yes, in the first moment is what can signal that we will have better days for our country. Obviously more people come to this understanding: which are the deputies, senators, the other ministers of the Supreme Court, our colleagues from the STJ, civil servants that only in this way, with peace, with tranquility and knowing our responsibility, that we can put Brazil in that place where everyone knows that one day it will arrive and God willing, dear Dias Toffoli, Noronha and  Minister João Otávio de Noronha , president of the STJ,  our government will take a big step in this direction.

So thank you all for your understanding, cooperation and harmony. Thank you very much. 
