Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Solemnity Commemorating 400 days of Government - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-solenidade-alusiva-aos-400-dias-de-governo-palacio-do-planalto

Palácio do Planalto, February 5, 2020

It's never too late to be happy, 30 years later.

I hope that this dream, through the hands of Bento and the vote of parliamentarians, comes true. Because the Indian is a human being exactly like us. He has a heart, he has feelings, he has a soul, he has desire, he has needs and he is as Brazilian as we are.

Four thousand days of marriage, I'm completing this week. I wasn't wrong. I will definitely reach 40,000. 

Four hundred days of our government. I confess, there were consecutive, uninterrupted days of a lot of tribulation, sacrifice, commitment, dedication, but with a great team on my side, our ministers. In the end, the satisfaction of duty accomplished.

I summarize everything that is happening in Brazil, it is a passage that also happened today, since my life is full of coincidences. I held a meeting today at Alvorada, I invited my ministers and everyone who attended. Congratulations. I also invited the presidents of the Chamber, of the Senate, Rodrigo Maia, Davi Alcolumbre, of the Supreme Court, Dias Toffoli, of the other Powers aggregated in Brasília. Augusto Aras from PGR was also present.

And  there I started directing, obviously, the word them. I said, I asked who among us thought we would one day be occupying this role that we occupy today? I think almost no one thought. Did Tereza Cristina think? I don't think so. You didn't have much political influence within the Chamber. And what did I conclude? We are privileged. Look where we've come. I even referred to Caiado, as if he had reached the peak of his career. No, there are still some more steps for him to climb in life, for the good of our country. 

 So, our understanding, our unity, our desire to get things right, our perception of the people's needs, together, we can really change Brazil's destiny. If we change a little now, I recognize that there has been some change, we can change much more. 

 Even this project that regulates article 231 of the Constitution, from our Minister of Mines and Energy, is a big step. It depends on parliament. They will come under pressure from environmentalists, these environmental people, right? If one day I can, I will confine them to the Amazon, since they like the environment so much. And stop disturbing the Amazons here in urban areas.

That's a big milestone, that's it. I even spoke the other day with our president of the Central Bank. That I have to bring nonsense to them too. Is there a problem with the Central Bank buying gold? He said, not at first. And why not, Minister Fernando? We take advantage of border platoons, if these areas were legalized. Give due support to Pedro Guimarães, from Caixa Econômica, too, and set up agencies there to buy gold, to buy precious stones, so that they can be cut within Brazil. And not being sold as almost commodities, without any price. Just a bias to show the size of our wealth.

When I see Sergio Moro talk about Security, if we don't advance in Security, there's no point in thinking about having good plans for tourism, because no one will come here. This was a conversation with these authorities, around 30 present. 

And I also showed something that is inside us and not long ago we were ashamed to talk about it. We have a government nowadays that respects the family. An obvious thing, but it satisfies us. We want our children on the right path, with a good education. Until a few days ago I told Weintraub, you are a privileged minister. Education has reached such a level that it cannot be surpassed by anyone, because it is in last place. Obviously, taking into account the last Pisa test, held at the beginning of 2018. The next one will be in 21. He already knows that these numbers will change. If we don't invest seriously in education, we won't have a future.

This week I also had a rewarding moment in São Paulo, where we went to lay the foundation stone and also hold the inaugural class of the new Colégio Militar de São Paulo. The new school in Campo de Marte. The air force commander, Brigadier Bermúdez, was present. Also present was the Army commander, João (...) from my class, Leal Pujol, very well represented now by General Braga Netto, here next door. Who is chatting with the right person, Paulo Guedes. It's a privilege to chat with Paulo Guedes. The man who really, in the Economy, is changing the destiny of our Brazil. 

So, these things that may seem few, are many for a country that had nothing. I spoke out of respect for the family. A government that has loyalty to its people. Every day when leaving, at the entrance to Alvorada, I meet an average of 120 people. I talk to some, take a photo, chat, make a joke, others complain, put a piece of paper out of my pocket. I address these complaints. We try to respond. How many of these complaints, I spent two, three four in the morning, for the ministers to give a response. To show that we are interested.

For example, Caiado, let's discuss the price of gasoline. Is the government to blame? He has. Our governors are also to blame. And the mayor of Anápolis too. It charges a little bit of gas tax. Congratulations, thank you to the mayor of Anápolis, for the loving way in which you received the news from the government, in having our field hospital at the Anápolis base. So that the quarantine could be carried out by personnel coming from abroad. 

Congratulations to the Chamber that yesterday approved the Executive's project, which deals with quarantine and I congratulate you in advance, in the person of Bezerra, have you already voted? Bezerra has already voted? Eduardo Gomes is also here, also confirming that the Senate has already approved it. So, we will sanction tomorrow for sure. 

Let's go look for our brothers who are left behind. If we didn't look for it sooner, it's because we in the Armed Forces, over the last 30 years, have gone through a brutal process of persecuting the Armed Forces, of scrapping them. So we even had difficulty sending a plane there. We had to send both planes. We no longer have a C130 at our disposal. Our Air Force has reached this point. And why this persecution of the Armed Forces, by the left? Because we in the Armed Forces have always been the last obstacle to socialism. Hence the persecution. But the soul, the will, the patriotism of the Navy, Army and Air Force soldier did not suffer.

And I tell you, you also have a government today that recognizes military activity as being essential for the maintenance of our democracy.

And I would end by talking about a government, something I was ashamed to talk about, the subject was the secular state. We have a secular state, yes. But we have a president and a large part of the Brazilian population who are Christian and are proud of it. God, Country and family. TV Globo remembers this. They were curious and I satisfied their curiosity.

But this is a portrait of our Brazil. We have a wonderful, hard-working people, who are beaten and suffered a lot, complain and it is time to respond to these people's demands. And I'm sure together, because no one does anything alone. Not only the privileged ones stayed with me at lunch today, as well as all of you who are here, without exception. From the humblest to the most senior.

We are all responsible for our future. And I conclude, I am here because I believe in you and you are here because you believe in Brazil and we all believe in God.

Thank you all.
