Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Democracy Summit

March 29, 2023

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cupula-da-democracia

I congratulate President Joe Biden on his initiative to organize the Democracy Summit.

This is an opportunity to renew, at the highest level, our common commitment to defending democracy, combating corruption and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.

In Brazil, our Federal Constitution establishes human dignity and democracy as fundamental principles of the Republic.

We have worked with determination to forge a culture of dialogue, freedom and social inclusion.

We are committed to ensuring freedoms of thought, association and expression, including on the Internet – something essential for the proper functioning of a healthy democracy.

We value everyone's right to express their opinions and be heard.

In recent years, we have worked hard to promote and protect human rights in Brazil.

I reaffirm our determination to protect and respect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all Brazilians, regardless of origin, race, sex, color, age, religion, without any form of discrimination. The protection of human rights is an inherent value of the Brazilian government and guides all our public policies and social programs.

The creation of the Ministry of Women, Family and Human Rights is the result of this commitment. 

The fight against corruption is also a permanent priority, so much so that we are completing three years without a single complaint against our government, contrary to what happened in previous years. 

We have adopted the most ambitious and comprehensive anti-corruption plan in the history of this country and are building and strengthening mechanisms to prevent, detect, and punish acts of fraud, corruption and unethical behavior.

I reiterate our commitment to continue promoting a more transparent and responsible public administration, through transversal public integrity policies.

Count on Brazil to contribute to strengthening democracy in the world, with full respect for the sovereignty and independence of nations.

Thank you very much.
