Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Opening Session of the Brazil-United States International Conference: a new prism in partnership and investment relations - Miami, FL/USA

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-sessao-de-abertura-da-conferencia-internacional-brasil-estados-unidos-um-novo-prisma-nas-relacoes-de-parceria-e-investimentos-miami-fl-eua

Miami, FL/USA, March 10, 2020

Gentlemen, ladies. Good morning.

It is an honor, it is a satisfaction to be in the United States of America, a country that since I was young, very young, at school, I have come to admire.

I confess that I never expected to be in the situation I find myself in. Obviously, humility has always been by my side. I even say, it's the ministers who work, I'm the coach of the football team. You are the ones who, each in your area, have to do the best for our country. And each one doing the best for your country, we little by little have been rescuing our credibility in the world and, what is very important, the trust.

Brazil has really changed. Even with the way the 2018 elections were held. Nobody expected that someone outside the establishment  would be able to become President of the Republic. We had nothing to get to. The press was almost all against us. We had no resources, so much so that I spent less than a million dollars on my campaign. And we obviously didn't have a big party, but we had the truth above all else. And, not being afraid to show Brazil's potential and its problems and how to solve them, with the Brazilian Parliament, I have always made this very clear, in all my travels. We could glimpse a different Brazil.

With all due respect, the United States, speaking of potential, no one in the entire world has the biodiversity that we have, the wealth and minerals. Within the small space of land, the state of Roraima, we have the entire periodic table underground, drinking water, natural riches, natural beauty. Nobody has what Brazil has. 

Even if we look at Baía de Angra, where I am fighting, still in contact with the Brazilian Parliament, to revoke a decree - look at the level of bureaucracy we still have in Brazil, but we are winning -, to revoke a presidential decree, you have to be a law. Now, if we manage, together with Parliament, to revoke this decree, we will have resources from outside Brazil to invest in tourism. I'm sure, with all due respect to Mexico, we will have a Cancún, or something even superior to Cancún, there in Baía de Angra, in Rio de Janeiro. And so in several parts of Brazil.

We have huge empty spaces. We have the largest preserved forest in the world, as the senator who preceded me here recently said, that we preserve the environment. The forest is humid. The information, the fake news, obviously, that talk about Brazil, about outbreaks of fire or burning in the Amazon region, is false. This exists almost on the outskirts, an almost cultural thing, on the part of the people, who seek food, to build their own small garden. And why is this all enhanced, since we talked about the Amazon here? We have problems, but we have solutions too. We are, little by little, managing to change this legislation in Brazil, and Brazil increasingly opens up to itself and to the world, for progress and for the good of us and all humanity.

Our Amazon has suffered, since [19]92, a true industry of demarcation of indigenous lands. Nowadays, Brazil has 14% of its territory demarcated as indigenous land. Nobody has that in the world. Obviously, we know that other countries don't even talk about indigenous communities, right? But, taking into account the people that existed there, no one has that. And what some countries wanted from Europe is for this current government of mine to reach [20]22 demarcating 20% ​​as indigenous land. This will not be accomplished. Brazil has changed and the Amazon is ours. And we will fight for it.

Left-wing governments have also discovered other formulas to hinder and impede the development of Brazil with quilombola communities, with all the respect we have for those who came to Brazil and were enslaved, we abhor slavery, thank God it no longer exists in Brazil. But these demarcations of quilombola lands - and there are 900 in front of me to be demarcated, new areas - cannot happen. We are one people, one race and we want to unite for the good of our Brazil.

Brazil, in addition to the riches I mentioned to you, also has a wonderful people, a peaceful people, an orderly people, a hard-working people, who obviously have their problems, don't they? But it is up to us, politicians, especially from the Executive and Legislative branches, to find a solution for this. We are succeeding, we are changing. Our ministers, for the first time in the history of Brazil, were chosen based on technical criteria, the best there were on the market and who volunteered to do so, are making up our government. We have an economist in Economy, a doctor in Health, a jurist in Justice, we have an engineer in Infrastructure, we have an environmentalist in the Environment. So, Brazil composed its team of qualified and qualified people who owe loyalty to their people and no longer to political parties.

And, in this way, we are changing Brazil. The numbers, not only in the economy but also in other areas, speak for themselves during the past year. Obviously, at the moment we have a crisis, a small crisis, don't we? Or, in my opinion, much more fantasy, the issue of the coronavirus, which is not all that the mainstream media propagates, or propagates, throughout the world, (...) or otherwise, some in the press managed to turn a crisis into a fall in the price of oil. I understand that it would give much more... it is better to drop the price of oil by 30% than by 30%. But this is not a crisis. Obviously, stock market problems? This happens sporadically, doesn't it? And it is expected that, as we are seeing just now, the Stock Exchanges that are starting to open around the world are already showing signs of recovery.

Returning to our Brazil: the State apparatus was enormous. We were one step away from the Venezuelanization of our Brazil by left-wing politicians who occupied the Executive, who bought the Brazilian Parliament, in a fury never seen anywhere in the world, working full steam ahead for an absolute project of power. And the miracle happened, the impeachment of a president and the election of another without any ties to those who practiced that type of politics.

I confess that, despite the good will, the good intentions, the good intentions, it is not easy, it is not being easy. It never crossed my mind to abandon, to give up. But, every now and then, I ask myself: “what am I doing in the middle of this storm?” Someone had to be at the front of this ship. And there's nothing like a captain, coincidentally an Army captain, being at the forefront of Brazil's destiny. And, obviously, we count on good people within Parliament, within the Judiciary, among other sectors of society, to help change Brazil.

We overcame a major challenge, which was the pension reform. Other presidents over 20 years have tried. Even with the Parliament under its yoke, the weight of ministries, official and state banks, which were distributed at will to political parties, they were unable to do so. We managed it, through convincing work. We had to carry out this reform. It is bitter, yes, for part of the population, but that was the remedy, either it was applied now or Brazil would succumb. We managed to approve it.

We now have two challenges ahead, as important as the first, tax reform. We want to transform the country into an easy place to do business. Because, nowadays, we are one of the most difficult countries to do business in. And we want to simplify all of that. Another reform has to do with public servants who, over the last 30, 40 years, had their staff quite swollen. We do not want to dismiss any employee, nor break the stability of any employee, we want legislation from now on, that does justice, obviously, to employees and also to tax payers, who pay heavy taxes in our Brazil. I believe we overcame this challenge.

I had a quick Whatsapp conversation with the president of the Chamber of Deputies, Rodrigo Maia, and he said that despite some problems that have always existed and will always exist, between the Executive and the Legislative, he is ready to take these proposals forward . And I am sure that we will be able to overcome this last obstacle, for the good of our Brazil. And, in this way, we will be open to the whole world, seeking another legislation, a way of seeking free trade. As I spoke briefly with Donald Trump, last Saturday, and he said that there is an interest in starting to discuss a free trade policy between Brazil and the United States. This, in my opinion, is fantastic for all of us. Because we are demonstrating that we do want free trade, we want free enterprise to be present in these moments. 

And, more than anything, by assuming and putting into practice what we said during the electoral campaign, as well as what we are doing at the moment, with the help of the Brazilian Parliament, we will once again restore Brazil's trust with the world. Therefore, I know that your desire, certainty and guarantee to invest in Brazil will be very strong, for the good of our countries.

Entering the political issue. We know the problem in Venezuela, we know the difficulty in solving this problem. And it will be resolved, in my opinion, with the help of God and with the help of other countries, including the United States, in the search for this solution. It is a state very rich in oil and gold, among other goods, but which was taken over by socialism and communism.

And we must, at all costs, by strengthening the Brazil-United States relationship, truly transform Brazil as a reference within South America. When prosperity comes, other countries will join us and we will no longer have the nightmare of other Venezuelas appear in our South America.

And, with that, we have the explicit support of Mr. Donald Trump, who has publicly said that he considers me a friend, and I am very honored by that. We know what nations think of each other, but we also know what man thinks of another, in this case as head of state. There is mutual interest that we have a good relationship. After all, we can complement each other in many economic activities. And Brazil has its doors open, its arms open so that, more and more, this partnership becomes a reality.

For example, we were very honored by the agreement signed, focused on the issue of defense in our country. Over the last 30 years, the Armed Forces have been forgotten in our country, more than that, they have been persecuted, because, to achieve a project of power, they needed to bend the backbone of the Armed Forces. Thank God they didn't succeed, for the patriotic training of our military men and women who have, above all, the inseparable love of democracy and freedom. This kept Brazil alive. This did not happen in Venezuela. This, thank God, is alive in Brazil, this feeling that exists in the Armed Forces, the true institution responsible for democracy and freedom. The people of Brazil have always counted on their Armed Forces, when we, Brazilians and Americans, were in the Second World War, fighting Nazism.

This is a brief history of Brazil. Our potential is there. Yes, we need to get closer and closer, because this is good, in my opinion, not only for the United States and Brazil. It's good for the world. And it's great to live in freedom. I often say that there is a greater good than life, which is freedom, because without freedom, there is no life. And the United States is an example of democracy and freedom for the world. And, more and more, we want to get closer, to recover what was forgotten over 20, 30 years, by other presidents, for other totalitarian issues, we are willing, more and more, to continue hand in hand in this destiny .

This last Saturday I had the honor of, for the fourth time, meeting President Donald Trump. I confess that I have great sympathy and respect for him, and I want to continue enjoying that sympathy and respect because, after all, he knows that the reciprocal is true. Our countries are almost brothers. And this north-south axis is fundamental for all of us. So, what I ask of you, although you already have proof, is that, more and more, we come together so that we can achieve our goals.

 My friends, my brothers, thank you very much for the opportunity, for your affection, for your consideration and for your trust. Big America, big Brazil.
