Words from the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the unveiling ceremony of the paintings from the Gallery of Heroes of the VIGIA-Brasília/DF Program

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/palavras-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-cerimonia-de-descerramento-dos-quadros-da-galeria-de-herois-do-programa-vigia-brasilia-df

Brasília/DF, June 25, 2020

Mrs Eliane.

Mr Ivan.

There is no more difficult time than this for a father or mother. All of us who have children are capable of giving our lives for them.

Young Daniel, in the prime of his life, doing what he wanted, preparing to defend the Fatherland, to leave a story behind, was surprised by those who think and act in the opposite way to how we good citizens act. 

We are passengers here. I thank God for my second life. There is nothing that can comfort the pain of losing a child. Life teaches us that it's normal for us parents to go first. But we know that the opposite can happen.

At this moment, not only the Brazilian Army, but our Armed Forces, I as President of the Republic, together with the Minister of Justice, materialized Daniel's photo as the first to be honored. Obviously, we don't want any more tributes, we want our children alive. But if destiny so directs us, more than honoring those who defended the Homeland, we want them as an example for all of us.

Mrs. Eliane, Mr. Ivan, I am sure that in your generosity, God has already welcomed your son there, and that, God willing, one day we will be there too. Next to Him, eternal peace.

Dear Mrs. Eliane, Mr. Ivan. May God comfort you, your family, friends, colleagues in the barracks, like those present here, Sergeant Ripp, Private Borges, who also experienced a unique moment in their lives. But you are doing it for an ideal, for a mission to serve our country.

Congratulations to you. And to the parents, our deepest sympathies for this moment that will mark them forever. And deep down, the certainty that they were fulfilling a mission to serve their country well. We will all never forget that.

God comfort everyone.
