Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Launch Ceremony of the National Fertilizer Plan - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cerimonia-de-lancamento-do-plano-nacional-de-fertilizantes-palacio-do-planalto

Brasília/DF, March 11, 2022.

Paulo Guedes, you can rest assured that we will not create Adubras. Allow me quickly, something discussed yesterday, I want to congratulate the Federal Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, for the approval of a project that aims, in practice, to smooth the increase in diesel oil yesterday. At the end of the day, the Government comes in with approximately 0.30 cents, the governors also with 30 and the taxpayer keeps the other 30. So soon it will be sanctioning this project and the readjustment announced by Petrobras yesterday will come into force From today onwards, instead of 90 cents, it will be 0.30 cents at the pump.

I only regret that Petrobras did not wait an extra day to announce this adjustment, but congratulations to the Chamber and the Senate and also to our ministers who worked on this project.

The Treaty here today is extremely important. I wonder in the other government how the composition of ministers and secretaries was made, whether they would have resisted everything that has happened so far; the pandemic, other adverse events and now this issue 10,000 km away from here, which affects not only us, it affects practically the whole world. I can prove this by the very gratifying presence we have here of ambassadors from other countries. Allow me to just mention the countries, so that you can really notice the grandeur, not just of the program, but of what Brazil represents to the world.

Present here are the ambassadors of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Australia, Bahrain, Qatar, Egypt, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Arab League, Morocco, Peru, Tunisia, European Union and Oman. Obviously, the interests of nations exist, and here the interest in the sale of fertilizers, yes, in investment and something more important than anything else that could be thought of: the food security of each of these countries.

You are very welcome here, I thank you for your presence, it is obviously a sign, not only of respect for Brazil, but also of mutual interest between the nations. Thank you very much once again for your presence.

National fertilizer plan. I spent 28 years in Parliament, the first time I spoke out on this issue was in 2008, that is, 14 years ago. At other times I also demonstrated alongside the ruralist bench, later also known as the agribusiness bench. And we, knowing about these problems, the solution matured, a little late, but it matured. This issue up to 10,000 km away was obviously the last act.

And we here in Brazil, like few countries in the world, have everything we need for ourselves and the world. As Paulo Guedes said: We have a periodic table; It's not all over Brazil, it's for example a small state, speaking of size, like Roraima, there's everything there. And when we took over the government a year or so after it began, we presented a proposal for mining on indigenous lands by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. This is nothing more than the regulation of two articles of the Constitution, no one is inventing anything, articles 176 and 231. So we are complying with our Constitution, whoever says otherwise is uninformed or wants to disrupt the environment. And Brazil once again, by taking the lead, also presents solutions to the world.

We hope that this project, which was already achieved yesterday, thanks to the deputies in the first instance, led by the President of the Chamber himself, Arthur Lira, when put to a vote we approved the urgency of this project. I believe that in a few weeks it will be voted on and approved in the Chamber, and will then go to our Federal Senate. The climate, increasingly, appears to be quite favorable for all of us, because this project, as I spoke to Admiral Bento just now, and as well as Almirante Rocha from SAE, it aims to serve us in other areas such as energy generation water.

As I was in Roraima flying over the Cotingo River Valley, it is a fantastic thing, gentlemen ambassadors, that very few countries in the world have this, an extension of 12 km, where we have an elevation of 600 meters. We can, Ciro Nogueira, extract clean energy from there for a large part of your Northeast, and instead of building a line to bring energy from the Manaus region to Boa Vista, do exactly the opposite, the line would serve to take energy in the opposite direction. Energy is everything, even for our lives, let alone for a country.

So this National Fertilizer Plan, which is being presented today, began to be created in March, February, March of last year with Almirante Rocha's SAE at the helm, now it is born and presented to all of us. A satisfaction that we present to everyone in Brazil, that a government, in addition to a commitment to public affairs, seeks to anticipate problems and seek solutions.

I am sure that this plan is already a reality, as voted in Congress, it will soon be a reality, and I make it very clear, it is not just under indigenous reserves, coincidentally or not, that these mineral reserves exist. They also exist outside of it, but we must make space to increasingly integrate our indigenous brothers into our society.

On my travels through Brazil, especially when I land in an indigenous village, the impact on them is excellent. They are practically like us, they want to integrate, they want to produce on your land, they want to do on your land what their farmer brother does next door. This is very good for us and it is also good for the world.

Thank you all very much and congratulations to everyone involved.
