Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Medal Awards Ceremony of the International Mathematics Without Borders Olympiad 2019 - Manaus/AM

July 2019

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-a-solenidade-de-entrega-de-medalhas-da-olimpiada-internacional-de-matematica-sem-fronteiras-2019-manaus-am

Authorities already appointed, my dear students, it is impossible not to get emotional at a moment like this. What sets a man and a woman free is knowledge, study; and you are setting that example right now. There is no greater satisfaction for a father or a mother in being sure that his son or daughter will be better than him or her. Study frees, study makes progress and brings happiness.

On my table, I have some who studied at military schools. Like our dear Minister of Economy, Paulo Guedes. I ask you to stand up. Our Minister of Economy attended the Military College of Belo Horizonte.

We also have the other minister, that of Mines and Energy, Admiral Bento. He attended the Military College of Rio de Janeiro.

We also have, we have more; There is a minister there who is the youngest on my team. Augusto Heleno already commanded the Amazon here. He was a student at the Military College of Rio de Janeiro.

On my right, Colonel Menezes, superintendent of the Manaus Free Trade Zone. He attended the Military College of Manaus. Anyone else at the table?

 The certainty and tranquility, on our part, that tomorrow you will be taking our places here at the front. Education truly liberates. Investing in education is not just resources as some people preach. Investing in education means providing means for teachers to exercise their authority in the classroom. And in this way, being able to make students really learn. 

An example of this is more than clear here. In a difficult Mathematics Olympiad in Japan, you were our heroes. I went through school benches similar to yours. I attended the Army Cadet Preparatory School in Campinas, I know that a lot of people would like to go there. And I'm sure that many will, as well as many have entered other universities and will acquire enough knowledge to put it to good use in the region we live in, our Amazon. The richest region on planet Earth. And by marrying development with environmental preservation, we will do so, but rather than the heart of Brazil, we will be the economic soul of our Brazil.

Here is everything to propel Brazil to the prominent place it so deserves. We have biodiversity, we have mineral wealth, drinking water, large empty spaces, unimaginable tourist areas. We have everything to boost our economy, starting here in the Amazon region.

And at this moment, a great supporter of this region, we cannot fail to pay tribute to our president Castelo Branco, who in 1967 created the Manaus Free Trade Zone. If you allow me, a round of applause for Castelo Branco.

What I ask most of God, in addition to the humility He has already given me, is training to guide the destiny of this Nation well, alongside wonderful people, like I have in Brasília. Not only ministers, but also many deputies and senators, some of whom are present here. The union of all of us is what will make a difference in the future.

For the first time in the history of Brazil, we have a president who is honoring what he promised during the campaign. And what did I promise? Peace for Brazil, democracy, freedom and prosperity. 

And I am sure that, as the role I currently occupy is a mission from God, we will make a much better Brazil for you and you will also make a much better Brazil for your children who will come in the future.

To the people of Manaus, state of Amazonas, to the people of Brazil, thank you very much. On behalf of all of them, congratulations to you from the Manaus Military Police School. We are together, Brazil is ours. 
