Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the opening ceremony of the rodeo of the 64th Festa do Peão de Boiadeiro de Barretos - Barretos/SP

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-cerimonia-de-abertura-do-rodeio-da-64a-festa-do-peao-de-boiadeiro-de-barretos-barretos-sp

Barretos-SP, August 17, 2019

Friends of Barretos, friends of Brazil. There is no greater emotion than being welcomed with such human warmth. Every time I've been here you've been so nice to me. And trust, over time, was born. And today I say to you: I respect all institutions, but I owe loyalty to you. Our Brazil is above all and I have God above all.

            At this moment, where so many criticize the Festa de Peões or the Vaquejada, I want to say that, with great pride, I am with you. For us there is no such thing as political correctness. We will do what has to be done.

            And since there are a lot of rural people here, let me tell them that, on the occasion of the G20 Meeting in Osaka, for the first time in their lives, the powerful from all over the world received the President of the Republic of Brazil on an equal footing. I didn't come back here to demarcate indigenous lands, quilombolas or, increasingly, being Shiite on environmental issues.

            The environment can and will marry development. As long as I am president, development will be above all. And say that, as I have faith, I have love for you, I will do what needs to be done. You count on a person who had the honor and freedom to choose a ministry perfectly in tune with Brazil's interests.

            For the first time in our history we have a president who is honoring what he promised during the campaign. And my promise is with honesty, with faith, with simplicity, with making you truly proud to be Brazilian. Our green and yellow flag makes us all proud. And this moment is also one of peace, joy and reflection.

            Thank you to God for my life. Thank you to you who, in large part, through your hands put me in the situation I find myself in today.

            Thank you very much, Brazil. Thank you very much, Brazilian people. Brazil above all, God above all.
