Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the International Congress of Cellular Vision in the Model of 12

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-no-congresso-internacional-da-visao-celular-no-modelo-dos-12

Manaus, June 18, 2022.

Dear apostle Renê Terra Nova, thank you very much for the invitation.

Governor Wilson Lima, thank you for the welcome in your state.

Motorcyclists present here, thank you very much for this gigantic motorbike that we have just completed, giving more light and life to this moment of adoration.

Dear Alfredo Menezes and Nascimento, other politicians present here, to all of you, thank you very much for this moment.

It is always a pleasure to pass through this state that is the heart of Brazil. And look, just to say one sentence about the economy here in the state: There is no point in criticizing, and the governor is a witness, how the production and assembly of motorcycles has increased here in the Manaus free zone. And look at how we have treated motorcyclists across Brazil.

I determined to Minister Tarcísio back there that the toll for motorcyclists should be zeroed on any and all federal highways, whether tendered or re-licensed.

Today, on Dutra Rio-São Paulo, no one pays tolls anymore. In this way, we encourage the use of this vehicle, and directly, Manaus benefits from this. The Free Zone dates back to 1967, Castelo Branco, the first military president. It wouldn't be me, the sixth captain of the army, who would treat the Manaus Free Zone differently, largely responsible for keeping the Brazilian Amazon away from international greed.

Today's time here is to glorify our God. We must always be grateful for 1 more day, and more and more, sowing the path to our future, which is eternal life.

To all of you here in Manaus and our State of Amazonas, thank you for this opportunity.

Thank you for believing in our country.

Thank you for defending the true value of the Brazilian family.

Thank you for being against abortion, for being against gender ideology, for being against the release of drugs, and for increasingly defending family values.

The family is the cell of society. A perfect, adjusted family, more than profitable for the State, it is the certainty that this State will always be sovereign and free.

So, to all of you, thank you for this opportunity and also for listening to me for these few minutes.

Thank you all.

Brazil above all, God above all.
