Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Ceremony celebrating the Inauguration of UTE Jaguatirica II; the North Block Airports Concession; and the Delivery of Vehicles from the Alimenta Brasil Program - Boa Vista/RR

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cerimonia-alusiva-a-inauguracao-da-ute-jaguatirica-ii-a-concessao-dos-aeroportos-do-bloco-norte-e-a-entrega-de-veiculos-do-programa-alimenta-brasil-boa-vista-rr

Boa Vista/RR, September 29, 2021

It's a pleasure to be here again in Roraima, I was here several times well before the pre-election campaign, but I know that everyone is curious what will happen this afternoon.

 Let's go, let's agree on something after what Hiran (Gonçalves) said here, it's maintained, God willing at 4 pm we'll get together, now let's share the good news? I'm going to call Minister Bento, of Mines and Energy, to stay here by my side.

 I now want to invite the Roraima bench, deputies and senators, please stand. We met with this bench at the beginning of 2019, their interest had been in the issue of energy security in the State of Roraima for years. At that time, the energy that came from Guri in Venezuela to us was already starting to fail, until it went completely to zero and we were in a hurry to resolve the issue of the Manaus/Boa Vista lion. We then met the Defense Council, the matter was debated and we saw how far we could go, what more we should do to achieve this objective. More than 10 years ago, Roraima was not integrated with the rest of Brazil on energy issues.

 The work on our part was intense from that moment on and was often helped by the Roraima bench. Until last night the stork appeared, last night the last obstacle to the beginning of the works was overcome and we have a stone next door, the cornerstone for the beginning of the construction of the lion.

 Here on the screen are some of our ministers in some parts of Brazil, we have Milton Ribeiro from Education there in Rio Branco in Acre, we have Marcos Montes who is temporarily replacing minister Tereza Cristina who is suffering from COVID and he is in Macapá , we have Marcos Pontes, the only astronaut in the Southern Hemisphere who is also in Manaus, the land of our governor Wilson Lima, we have Damares Alves, a key person in this lion of Tucuruí, his contacts, his comings and goings to search for communities indigenous people the authorization to make this lion, because it passes, this line passes through indigenous reserves, so Damares is currently in Belém do Pará.

 Also in Porto Velho was our Minister of Defense, General Braga Neto, who also had a huge participation in this issue, because when it comes to our indigenous brothers, the Armed Forces were always present and also Rogério Marinho, who is in Palmas Tocantins.

 So this date for all of us Brazilians and especially for men and women from Roraima is remarkable, it is the beginning of the lion's work connecting Manaus to Boa Vista.

 This work will not be very quick, but it will be completed in approximately 3 years, less than 3 years, it is a fantastic thing that can only be achieved when the Executive Power and the Federal Legislative Power are united, well represented here at the moment.

 So this nightmare in less than 3 years will cease to exist in this wonderful state called Roraima and I can tell you that every time I have been (....) I have said that the Amazon is ours, it belongs to us Brazilians, this region is the richest area in the world in biodiversity, in drinking water, in mineral wealth and we are increasingly discovering oil and gas in the region, not to mention the wonder of the riches, the natural beauty of this region.

 Tarcísio last year greatly deregulated the issue of seaplane driver's licenses, is that right Tarcísio? You can be sure, soon, that tourism will become even more present in this region, because there will practically be no shortage of seaplane airports here.

 When talking about planes, I just want to remember here that our dear deputy Hiran Gonçalves, his father who has already left us, ends up, via the Brazilian Parliament, and it is our sanction to mark your name at Tefé airport.

 Quickly here when Denarium talks about cooking gas, reducing the tax on cooking gas from 17% to 12% and he also said that this year he will eliminate the ICMS on cooking gas.

 Telling you that at the beginning of this year I zeroed out federal taxes on cooking gas, the same thing has been done by our governor Wilson, here from the State of Amazonas. The price of gas where it is bottled, in a 13 kilo cylinder, is around 50 reais. It does not justify, at the end of the line, costing an average of 130, zeroing the federal tax that I have already zeroed, zeroing the state tax, these two states Roraima and Amazonas, with our work now, with the help of Parliament, seek to purchase direct sale of cooking gas, like our provisional measure, which is about to be voted on in the Chamber, on the direct sale of ethanol, the alcohol that will lower the price of fuel at the pump.

 Telling you, with this direct sale, with this possible direct sale of cooking gas, it will fall to half the price. It doesn't justify at the beginning costing 50 reais for a gas cylinder and at the end of the line it costs 130, that price will fall by half, God willing, you can be sure.

 When people shouted here at Denarium “What about gasoline?” What is happening at the moment, we raise the discussion of taxes in Brazil, the governors have their autonomy for the ICMS, just as they have autonomy for other taxes. In my government, no taxes were increased and to tell you that the ICMS issue, what we need and the project is within the Chamber, yesterday I spoke on the trip I took to Alagoas with President Arthur Lira and he spoke at a at one point saying that he would put the project to a vote today or tomorrow.

 What this project says about ICMS says that its value will no longer be a percentage but a fixed amount that can be arbitrated by the respective governor. Therefore, we are not interfering with the ICMS, after all, this is not my responsibility, but when each state sets the value, you will be able to compare this value with the value of the federal tax, as well as the profit margin of the gas station owner, as well as in the value of transport and you will then be able to know where the cause of gasoline, diesel or ethanol is at the current value.

 We don't want to start a fight with governors here, quite the opposite, we want to understand each other more and work for the good of all of you

Federal taxes on gasoline, diesel and alcohol are exactly the same values ​​as those when I assumed the Presidency of the Republic, January 1, 2019. State taxes, to tell you, that I can increase this tax, I will not do that, you can be sure. But the governors, if this project passes in the Chamber and the Senate, you will know how much it will cost, how much the ICMS on gasoline is here in Boa Vista, or better yet, here in Roraima. And from then on, make the appropriate comparison and look for a way to make the fuel accessible to everyone.

I also remember that for a governor to reduce the nominal value of this tax, he will have to create another one under the fiscal responsibility law. Who knows, maybe we can change the LRF, so that in times like this pandemic, a nominal value of this tax can be changed for the good of all.

Let's leave the speech for this afternoon at 4 pm, will anyone get on the line with me here or not? Someone will get on the line, let's call them one by one here at Milton Ribeiro da Educação, there in Rio Branco, Acre. 

Before calling Milton, I think we are in a state here, which is very important for the future of Brazil. I know that the electoral density here is very low. We already had a former president, who said in the past that he wouldn't come here, because there were fewer voters here than a neighborhood in São Paulo. This is one of the states I've been to the most in my life and today too, it's a symbol. There is a group here in front of me of Venezuelans. Next month, I intend to go to Pacaraima to spend a few hours talking with our Venezuelan brothers, who have been fleeing hunger, poverty and the dictatorship imposed by Chávez and Maduro, there in that country.

Who could have imagined that in the 90s, that the very rich Venezuela, a member of OPEC, with incalculable mineral resources such as gold, could have its people in the poverty that they find themselves in today. Nobody could have imagined that. Now, how did this happen? It didn't happen overnight, it wasn't like lightning striking a tree. This was little by little. Rulers who had no love for freedom and democracy were co-opting the people, with benefits. Like gasoline at 1 cent a liter, with very substantial social projects. When oil hit 130 dollars a barrel. When oil dropped to 30 dollars a barrel, reality set in. There was no way to quickly reactivate the market. But that government back then, supported by the president of the Republic of Brazil at that time, began to impose dictatorship in Venezuela.

We cannot let this happen in our Brazil. Just now, I watched a video of former president Lula, saying that China's economic model is what should be imposed in Brazil. I'm not going to discuss China's economic model, but, obviously, the first step that should be taken here in Brazil, if this guy were to occupy the Presidency, to follow the Chinese model, would be to end the CLT. It would be ending the 13th, ending vacations, ending the Guarantee Fund, ending overtime. In other words, maintaining the work regime for our people, which we could not accept. China with its regime, Brazil with its regime. Now, we cannot accept that someone who was once president, who presents himself as a candidate to return to the Presidency, with this proposal having the support of the majority of the Brazilian people. 

We are also not here to discuss elections, just to show reality. Nobody has what we have. I told you in the past when I was in Israel. Israel has almost nothing. There is no drinking water, no fertile land, no wealth and minerals, no oil, almost nothing. But they are a people who have an unparalleled faith, who believe in God above all. I compare them to Brazil. Look at what Israel doesn't have and see who they are. Now, see what Brazil has and really become aware of what we are not. We have everything to be one of the greatest, perhaps the greatest power in the world. Not even other countries, like China, like Russia, that have territory among the five largest territories in the world, like Brazil, do not have what we do, taking into account not only mineral wealth, as well as fertile land. We have everything to be a great nation.

And we will lead a country to that destiny. Supported by the Brazilian people, alongside the Brazilian Parliament, we more than deserve this, we have the right to it. Until recently, those who dreamed of union. I was just dreaming, or rather, it was a nightmare. Today it becomes a reality. 

When each one of us, authorities present here, deputies, senators, ministers, works for our municipality, for our state, for Brazil, the benefit is for all of us. Brazil will be tomorrow what each of us does today. It won't be one person who changes the destiny of Brazil, but as the old saying says that a swallow doesn't make a summer, I tell you, every summer begins with a swallow.

 Like the speech, guys, closing, but it's a huge pleasure to be here. I hope, God willing, to meet you again at 4 pm, so we can chat here and announce again this great work that is the Manaus-Boa Vista union.

A hug to everyone. Thank you very much.
