Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Promotion Ceremony for New Aspirants to Officer of the Brazilian Air Force - Pirassununga/SP

December 6, 2019

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-senhor-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-a-solenidade-de-promocao-dos-novos-aspirantes-a-oficial-da-forca-aerea-brasileira-pirassununga-sp

If the shadow was not born for a few, the rain, a sign of prosperity, will serve everyone.

Brazilians from the five regions of this great rich and beloved country.

People to whom we owe loyalty and in the name of the executive branch I wish you all a good day.

Good morning.

Life is made up of moments that this moment is eternal in the life of each aspirant who receives his sword today.

But my aspirants as Supreme Chief of the Armed Forces allow me to address you in this way, just as our Commander of the Air Force remembered his past in 1978, I also remember my past in 1977 when I received this sword, may you never lack humility and gratitude because we know well that nothing can be achieved alone and with this feeling we certainly won't have insurmountable obstacles ahead.

This year we received a Brazil with ethical, moral and economic problems but with determination, will and patriotism and with good people at our side we are changing Brazil's destiny.

It is also worth remembering that we have a Government that respects the family, a Government that honors its military, a Government that cares for its people and even more so worships God, based on these principles we will place Brazil in the prominent place it deserves and you aspirants now go out to all corners of our Brazil taking what you learned here, what is part of tradition and military honor which is loyalty, which is patriotism which is the truth above all, which is the feeling of that Brazil can be as big as it is not only in its size but also on the international stage, the work of each one of us will place Brazil in the prominent place it deserves.

Young aspirants, together with your families, be happy, honor what you learned here as well as your family and your homeland and we will be happy.

Thank you very much to all of you and may our dear God protect you throughout this great mission that lies ahead.

Brazil above all and God above all.
