Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the closing ceremony of the Federal Police Agent Professional Training Course - Brasília/DF

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cerimonia-de-encerramento-do-curso-de-formacao-profissional-de-agente-de-policia-federal-brasilia-df

Brasília/DF, December 16, 2021


Gratitude is one of the greatest feelings a human being can have. So at this moment, I would ask, if there is any federal police officer present, who was with me on September 6, 2018, to come forward. A little guy there. Come here shorty. Campeche? I forgot his name. He had about 40 with me, I forgot his name. Come here Campeche. There's one more there. Érico and Elenilson are coming up here.

You know that we owe our lives to God, right? But here on earth, a colleague can often save our lives. And, at that time, there were about 30 federal police officers, a little more, they were at my disposal. This is by law, it was not my will, and we went to Juiz de Fora. People should know the story that happened there. If it hadn't been for the federal police's meticulous planning of an escape route to a health center or hospital or Santa Casa, I would have died. I wouldn't be here. It would be in second place in 2018. Or rather, I'm sure it wouldn't be here either. It would be in another location. 

So who are you? You are prepared for a lot. But you have to be even better prepared for the unexpected. The unforeseen happened, who could have imagined 30, 40 federal police officers, providing security for a person, that person being hit. Obviously, if it was for the sniper, there was no way. It is almost impossible for you to avoid such an act. But could a stabbing be avoided or not? Well, whoever saw the environment, there was no way to say that it was impossible for a person to reach that person, which was me, to land a blow and that would be fine. So, what was up to the Federal Police at that time? An escape route already drawn, towards Santa Casa, I managed to be saved. And my life too, God, obviously, our doctors from Juiz de Fora, as well as from São Paulo and these federal police officers, who have no training in the health or medical field, you know, accomplished this feat. So, my eternal gratitude to these three colleagues here.

Life is made up of moments. I know that this moment will mark your lives, just as you know that I am not a poet. And to tell you, one thing, one day, at least, makes us equal. It's graduation day. It's the day of happiness, of satisfaction with our duty accomplished, it's the day we leave our beloved Academy and head to the four corners of this wonderful Brazil, to fulfill our missions. You are extremely important for our Brazil. Your presence, at a graduation like this, already conveys, you know, a feeling that we want to do the right thing.

The Federal Police is closely associated with the fight against corruption. Yes, it is one of your most important missions. And you, acting as you do, increasingly give our population this true feeling that Brazil can succeed. We continue to fight corruption, an evil that came to Brazil, but increasingly, it appears that it can be fought and that we can be successful in this matter. 

I will say more, your work, in large part, made me appear in politics in 2018. Not only with the speeches, but within the Chamber of Deputies, as we have some parliamentarians present here, federal deputies, from the Federal Police, emanated with us in this fight. Is it easy to fight corruption? It's not easy. But it is the objective to be pursued, because it gives hope to all of us Brazilians, that we can, yes, in the future, right, have better days for our country.

You are an institution here, one of the best is evaluated by public opinion. For the respect you convey, for the work you do, for giving us more and more hope, that we can change the destiny of Brazil. So, on this day, at this time, at this moment, I just want to thank you. Thank God that you exist and also say that it was not easy to get here. 

We all have a story, a very competitive competition, like mine was in 1973, for Academia Militar das Agulhas Negras, there in Resende. There were 38 vacancies for all of Brazil, for the competition staff. It's a demonstration, when we commit, dedicate ourselves, have a goal, have faith, we achieve our goals. And Brazil, I'm sure, more than waiting, Brazil trusts in you and together we will achieve our goals.

Yes, we need you, for a lot of things here in Brazil. And just don't forget one thing, like someone who came before me, who said, no one does anything alone, we always depend on someone. No one can work alone. When you work as a team, you reach your goal more safely and even faster.

So, congratulations to all of you, be happy and may each one truly do their duty for the good of all of us.

Thank you very much. 
