Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the March for Jesus

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-marcha-para-jesus-2

Camboriú/SC, June 25, 2022.

Thank those who have God in their hearts. I thank him for my second life and the mission of being at the head of the Federal Executive.

The mission is not easy, it is very difficult, but we know that if it were otherwise he would not give this mission to one of us. We live in a Christian country, a country that is God-fearing, with gentle, orderly and hard-working people. A country that in the past has freed itself from other tricks from those who wanted to steal our freedom.

History clearly demonstrates all of this, we can even say something that some may not understand, we can even live without oxygen, but we will not live without freedom.

The whole world is going through difficult times, a consequence of the pandemic and a war that affects all of humanity. Brazil also suffers these consequences, but as the mayor said here, regarding the hospital, measures taken back when we took office, allowed us to enter the crisis later and exit earlier. The numbers are there, they prove where our Brazil is going.

But, we have something else that is more important than this material issue for us, because of these other issues we will overcome. These are spiritual issues, it is a fight between good and evil. My arrival in Brasília took those who wanted evil in our country out of their comfort zone. They have come together, they undermine our democracy, they accuse us of who they truly are, they believe they are the owners of the truth, they think they can do anything, even enslave us.

I always say that for me it is much easier to be on the other side, but we cannot forget one thing, all of us here without exception will have an end point one day, and the CV that we will present up there is everything we have done in our life down here. No one will escape that day, everyone will be judged and everyone can imagine what the consequences will be. We may all doubt where we came from, but we are certain of where we will all go.

What is the price of doing good to others? Why so much greed? Why want so much concentration of power?  Why fight for power at any price? Even if it costs well-being and suffering for our people? I repeat: It would be much easier for me to be on the other side, but don't forget everyone here, without exception the bill will come to everyone and our soul will follow its destiny.

As I said, my survival is not easy for a miracle, why not say almost a miracle, an election, then also forming a ministry with the most varied pressures possible so that Brasília continues as it has always been over the last few decades. We did the opposite, we bet that I will always owe loyalty to these people who are here in front of me.

A cell is to a body what a family is to society, a healthy family is more than profitable to society; It is the certainty that we will live in peace, in harmony and thinking about the future of all of us.

In this fight between good and bad, we know what is on the table, one side defends abortion, the other is against it, one side defends the family, the other wants to increasingly undermine its values, one side is against ideology of gender, the other is in favor, one side wants the people to arm themselves so that the shadow of those who want to steal our sacred freedom is increasingly removed. And I have said, armed people will never be enslaved.

Sell ​​your cloaks, buy swords, it's in that book we call the Holy Bible. Even for those who are not Christians, there are many teachings for our lives. Back then I used John 8;32, the truth is so difficult nowadays for us to see it sprouting from where it should sprout. If you want the truth of the Constitution, these people want to admit, everyone wants their own Magna Carta, then another passage, many people have suffered over the last two years, many innocent people have suffered with the loss of what is most sacred to each person us, freedom.

Many wanted us to make a decision, I tell you, I started using another biblical passage that says: “For lack of knowledge my people perish.” 

I understand that my arrival at the Federal Executive helped Brazilians in general to begin to understand what politics is and what each of the Three Powers represents for us.

I believe that this moment is practically over, as a soldier like so many others we have here, when we sit down in the square we swear to give our lives for our country. I am sure that the Brazilian people, regardless of an explicit oath, it is in their conscience, it is in their mind, it is in their daily lives that they also took an oath for their freedom.

What I say is not in vain, we cannot admit that if something bad is happening to others, we remain silent on this side. This evil will knock on your door one day, I have always talked about the 4 lines of the Constitution, rest assured, if necessary, and it increasingly seems that it will be necessary, we will take the decisions that need to be taken, because more and more I have a army that approaches 200 million people in the 4 corners of Brazil.

We can't wait for the 23rd or 24th to arrive and look back at us here and ask ourselves what we didn't do to get us to this difficult situation today. We are the majority, democracy is you, you have to give direction to all of us, and I say something else, going to the end, a third biblical passage, it is useful for each one of you, but I know it is much more useful for me, for the role I currently occupy, which says: “Fear nothing, not even death except eternal death”.

The greatest sin that any of us can commit is the sin of omission, we know what awaits us, we ask God to return these people from their goals, which are not the goals of these more than 200 million inhabitants of our Brazil. We have a country blessed by God, no one has what we have, anything we can think of, we have here, even that small state of Roraima, there in the North region, there is a periodic table under the ground.

What we see in Brazil is what the people agreed to, who thought they were used to changing governments and continuing to be the same thing, beyond the truth, beyond knowledge and beyond, what each person has to do for the good of your homeland, your children and grandchildren, we will achieve our goal.

Today is a religious event, as I have participated in others throughout Brazil, as I was yesterday and the day before yesterday in Caruaru and also in Campina Grande. You didn't see a single line in the traditional press, because there was no booing, quite the opposite, the humble people. These humble people of ours, especially in that region that is one of the slightly less favored regions of our country, understand what is happening and more than words, what matters is that each of us see it in the other's face, there there is the truth, there is what we want and each one of us must, in addition to doing our part, drag others not for advice, but for example, each one of us must talk to whoever is at your side, outside the home and sometimes they work in our house so that they are informed about what has been happening.

I remember that a few weeks ago, if I can go a little further, I was at an event in São Paulo, bringing together people who only talked about billions of reais, at one point they approached me and asked how we can help you? They thought the answer would be the standard one, at that moment there were about 40 people present, I called everyone who was in the kitchen and was serving our lunch, about 15 people and I said, you can help me by talking to these people and nothing more than that. .

Often you don't even know the name of the person who works in your house, who is in the kitchen or cuts grass in your garden, these people have a heart exactly like ours, they must be alerted, they must be convinced that if Brazil goes to the left, we will get on a little train that starts with Venezuela, passes through Argentina, goes to Chile and now the penultimate car is Colombia.

The most popular public service in Colombia is passport issuance. These are people who are already thinking about leaving their country, like what started to happen about ten years ago with our Venezuela and look, Venezuela is the country with the largest oil reserves in the world, a country with rich soil but with a Bad administration, we now have poor people, whose only solution is to flee to Roraima. Most of the people I was there with, I saw what was happening, I learned about it through our Brazilian Army, the majority of people who arrive there are women and children, and you see their faces, you see their height and their weight, on average, each other has 20 kilos less, they flee more than violence, they flee hunger in that rich country that we know began to be very poorly managed approximately 20 years ago.

Therefore, we know what we want, we cannot passively accept those who want to impose their will on us, I see here as Luciano Hang said just now, as the mayor also said, it seems that we are close to Dubai, but for that , losing this pomposity only needs one thing to happen, they paint our flag red.

In conclusion for all of you, our greatest asset is our children, our greatest treasure is our family and our greatest strength is our faith. I'm here because I believe in you, and we are all here because we believe in God.
