Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Closing Ceremony of the BRICS Business Forum - Brasília/DF

November 13, 2019

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-cerimonia-de-encerramento-do-forum-empresarial-do-brics-brasilia-df-1

Goodnight.

Honorable BRICS Heads of State and Government,

Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation,

Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India,

Xi Jinping, President of the People's Republic of China,

Cyril Ramaphosa, President of South Africa,

Ambassador Ernesto Araújo,

Mr. Robson Andrade, president of the CNI,

Ladies and gentlemen, members of delegations.

 

It is with great satisfaction and joy that we welcome such distinguished heads of state to the BRICS Business Forum.

This forum is an opportunity for us to have direct contact with leaders from the productive sector, in favor of an ever greater economic rapprochement between our countries.

I see here a large number of businesspeople interested in different segments and expanding intra-BRICS investments. Our exchanges with BRICS partners exceeded US$110 billion in 2018.

The government has been doing its homework to make Brazil increasingly attractive for business. The reform agenda, which had been waiting for a solution for decades, our government has been making a reality.

Telling you that Brazil has changed. Brazil began to open its market to the world. With concrete measures, we are increasingly regaining the world's trust.

We have great leaders here interested in Brazil and we are also interested in trade in the countries of these great leaders. Brazil still has a way to go. New reforms are presented to us, so that we can be sure that the business environment in Brazil becomes increasingly attractive. Brazil is one of the few countries in the world that has a wide market, with the most varied opportunities, to offer everyone. Measures of rapprochement, signs that we increasingly want to do business with the BRICS have become a reality from the moment we have opened our… visa exemptions for men who come to do tourism and business in our Brazil.

The world knows all our potential that comes from the countryside, as well as our mineral wealth, great tourist potential and a people who, increasingly, are interested in producing and cooperating with their Brazil.

The businesspeople present here today have great hope in the new government, which we want to expand and make the business environment increasingly easier. The opportunities are many. Brazil has never been at a level like we are at the moment.

Our recent trip to Japan, China, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia clearly demonstrated that Brazil is really on the right path.

I welcome the heads of state who, on many occasions, we are, yes, also a business card for each other, demonstrating that we have open arms to, increasingly, provide an environment of deeper trade and more diverse.

Those who, in fact, at the end of the line, are going to carry out this integration and this business are the BRICS businessmen.

Therefore, on this opportunity, I just want to congratulate you for being here, for believing in your country, for believing in the future of BRICS, for the good of our people.

Thank you all.
