Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Rural Property Titles Delivery Ceremony - Miracatu/SP

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-cerimonia-de-entrega-de-titulos-de-propriedade-rural-miracatu-sp

Miracatu/SP, October 13, 2021

Good morning everyone, first of all, thank you to God for my life and for the mission of guiding the destinies of this great nation.

It is a pleasure to return to my Vale do Ribeira, the region where I grew up, studied, entered the Agulhas Negras Military Academy and then entered politics and today destiny and the will of our God wanted me to be President of the Republic.

I have lived here in the cities of Ribeira, Sete Barras, a short time in Jacupiranga and most of my time in Eldorado Paulista, today I am in Miracatu, if Eldorado has a president, God willing, soon Miracatu will have a minister of the Federal Supreme Court.

The Miracatu family, the André Mendonça family, my congratulations for this extremely competent, capable and intelligent man and within my commitment an evangelical for the Federal Supreme Court.

Thank God I am very well received wherever I am in Brazil, this is a sign that our government has the mark of truth, we will never use docile words to tell big lies, this is not part of our formation, of our government always the truth above all.

We are accompanied here now by some authorities, people who live in my heart and who help shape the destiny of our nation, we have here a lady almost my age, our little great minister Tereza Cristina, after Alisson Paulinelli of the Garrastazu Médici Government in the 70s, today Tereza Cristina develops our nation even further with the work she does at the Ministry of Agriculture.

We have some federal parliamentarians here like my dear Carla Zambelli, our Colonel Tadeu also from São Paulo and my brother Hélio Lopes from Rio de Janeiro.

 State deputies have Frederico D'ávila who helps me, especially with the observations of what happens in the field, he brought to me a problem that we were studying but we accelerated the study, the issue of the great fertilizer crisis that is present in the All the world.

I make it very clear what problems we are experiencing, they complain about the price of fuel, the price of cooking gas and groceries, it's true, but what about the bill that the world is paying for the cowardly and criminal policy of staying at home that the economy sees you? after.

Perhaps I was the only Head of State in the entire world who had the courage to speak out against this stay-at-home policy, against closures, against lockdowns, against restrictive measures and currently also against mandatory vaccination.

Our government purchased all the vaccines that are currently distributed throughout Brazil, no governor purchased a single dose and we offered it, voluntarily, to all those who wanted to take it, with the stay-at-home policy forcing the most humble to comply with this order, lose all their income, we call these people informal people who did not have a signed work card, were not public servants and were not military, approximately 38 million people, if it were not for emergency aid from our government we would have had During a serious crisis last year, we spent the equivalent of 13 years of Bolsa Família on emergency aid.

I congratulate state deputies Danilo Balas and my friend Gil Diniz, we are doing everything we can to improve the suffering of the Brazilian people, I make it clear that this economic crisis is present all over the world, in the United Kingdom gas rose in two months by 300 per cent, the average price of gas in Europe has risen close to 200 percent, we recognize the high price here for your purchasing power but when it comes to gasoline and alcohol you can complain about the President of the Republic but first look how much your governor is charging ICMS.

The federal tax charged by the Federal Government, which is a nominal value, has remained unchanged since January 2019 when I took over the government, unlike what is collected by the governors and especially in São Paulo, which increased the ICMS on fuel in the middle of the pandemic.

In order not to go on too long, as a lady spoke a little about indigenous reserves, a lady said something about indigenous reserves. I ask you, did my government demarcate a single indigenous reserve land? Did you demarcate a single quilombola, expand a national park, create an environmental protection area?

Because today more than 60 percent of our territory is demarcated with something, today an area equivalent to the southeast region that we have here in São Paulo, Minas, Rio and Espírito Santo is already demarcated as indigenous land.

The Federal Supreme Court decides a process known as a new time frame, if this is approved, another area equivalent to the Southeast Region will also be demarcated as indigenous land, this is the end of agribusiness in Brazil, this is the certainty that we may not have plus the food guarantee, the certainty that our economy, largely based on agribusiness, will suffer a severe blow.

Is it easy to be President of the Republic? It's not easy to be mayor, let alone president of the Republic, but I understand that this is a mission from God and rest assured I will fulfill this mission until the last day of my term. It won't be an unfounded lying action that will get me out of there, we bothered many who robbed the nation for decades, our government is very different from others, we are completing 3 years without corruption in our government.

Until recently, every week we had 2.3 corruption scandals, until corruption appears in our government, we will be the first to collaborate in the investigation and elucidation of the facts, our commitment is to the truth, to honesty, to the well-being of all of you.

Telling you that thinking for Brazil, doing the right thing while occupying my chair is a very difficult path but rest assured that we will not back down, we will not accept pressure from wherever it comes because as long as God and the people are by my side we will continue to move forward of our nation's destinies.

This event here today seems to many to be little, I remember my late father, he went to have his first house, I was already 30 years old, these people who are receiving titles here today we feel on their faces the satisfaction of having a paper that is proof that that land is his, he knows that what he works on it will go to his children and grandchildren, it is a letter of manumission, it is independence, it is the freedom of this population.

And tell you a short time before I assumed the presidency, in addition to the corruption that was common in Brazil, land invasions by the MST, today you don't hear about that anymore, nothing happens by chance, what did we do to avoid that? ?

First thing is to take money from where it was going to the MST, there is no money from you for the MST to invade land, what else does it have, what else did we do, this work together with Geraldo from Incra increasingly distributes land titles to you , you are now no longer subordinated or compelled to follow orders from people who never thought of giving you freedom.

What else too? The firearm, I respect the opinion of anyone here who is against or in favor of the firearm, but what happened to me in Brazil is that only the criminals, the criminals, had firearms and in our government I could not change the law as I wanted, but we changed decrees and ordinances so that firearms became a reality among us.

On the 11th in Brasília, the bishop said that a beloved homeland is not an armed homeland, I respect his opinion. Only the next day when I had the special press in Aparecida, O Globo said that he said that, said that he would have said that on the 12th, he didn't say it, he is an educated person, we wouldn't discuss it openly there, especially because I hadn't microphone, there was no way to discuss this, it was just his issue, I respect the bishops, I respect everyone who has a different position than mine.

It's not because when I don't want something I think no one can have the right to want it, we should worry about our freedom, the greatest good of a nation, without freedom not life, more important than life itself It is freedom, we cannot flirt with socialism, with communism, countries that have done this are unlikely to return to democracy.

We see Cuba, Venezuela and now we are seeing our beloved Argentina embark on a path that seems like there may be no return.

Next month I will be in Pacaraima, Roraima, I intend to spend a couple of hours on the border with Venezuela watching the people fleeing the dictatorial regime of Chávez and Maduro and I want to show you, watch this live that is 10 minutes of it, I want to show you how a regime enslaves a people, the regime adored by a large part of the Brazilian press that does not have the courage to show this.

The majority of people, hundreds of people who enter Brazil through Pacaraima, are women, many pregnant, others with children on their laps or carrying them by the hands with a bundle of clothes on their heads, a suitcase in the other hand and are mined throughout the entire path they take, many are forced to become prostitutes to be able to feed their children and I ask, do we want this for Brazil?

And I'm now going to draw on a biblical verse that we should worry about this, it says because of lack of knowledge my people perished, we cannot accept the easy speech of the left, of those scoundrels who a short time ago were sitting in the presidential chair but organized the largest criminal group in the history of the world, where they stole almost everything from our nation for a project of power and some want to reappoint the presidential chair, exactly what put Brazil in a very complicated situation like the one I found in January 2019.

I found a devastated Brazil, ethically, morally and economically, I ask you, do you want Haddad's Ministry of Education to return, which was there for 12 years? Do you want the return of gender ideology for our children?

 Today I have Mr. Milton in education, an evangelical here in Santos, he does an excellent job but it is not easy to change the direction of a transatlantic that is changing slowly, giving hope to you, like for example who doesn't like Minister Tarcísio for Infrastructure? An extremely competent man who does a fantastic job in that ministry, even with few resources, do you want him as governor of São Paulo? If you want Tarcísio in politics, ask for him, I don't know what his destiny is, what I'm sure of is that he is an exceptional minister in infrastructure, we cannot compare Tarcísio, Tereza Cristina or any other minister of ours, like ministers who preceded us. 

It is very difficult to compare. Those who are politicians here know well that to form even a secretariat, right mayor, you have pressure. Imagine forming a ministry. We do not accept pressure. We created a ministry with the best we had at the time and we are giving satisfaction to all of you. 

Coming to the end, in 2014, you know who was in the Presidency in 2014. The Minister of Agriculture in 2014, from the PT government, signed a normative instruction allowing the import of bananas from Ecuador. We can not forget. The economy of Vale do Ribeira, to a large extent, comes from bananas. And there, when you see Ecuador, it is a country that does not share a border with Brazil. To get here, the banana had to travel 10,000 km, passing through the Panama Canal. Phytosanitary control was carried out by Panama and not by the Brazilian government. There, bananas, in addition to other diseases, also have black Sigatoka, banana mucus, there was no justification for that. A normative instruction aimed at meeting ideological political interests at that time. When we took office, I spoke with Minister Tereza Cristina and this normative instruction was quickly revoked. If this continued, the region's economy would certainly be greatly affected. 

So, when you vote for councilor, mayor, deputies, senator, whatever, it is a tremendous responsibility. We have been watching across Brazil, some mayors doing barbaric things to the people, considering the pandemic. People appeal to the Judiciary, but it is not the Judiciary of First Instance, they have to appeal to the City Council. Mayor, how many councilors are here? There are 11 councilors here. Let's suppose the mayor issues a decree that you don't agree with, he won't do that, I know that. But let's suppose he did, issued a decree that you didn't agree with. Look for a councilor, file a draft legislative decree, to try to annul the mayor's decree. If there are 11 here, half a dozen present, 4 decides. 

So guys, and I say this too, are there any councilors here? Raise your arm. Because I was once a councilor too. You are happy because you have a good mayor here, you won't have this problem. But many municipalities have been suffering absurdities.

So being personal, the responsibility of voting is enormous. It doesn't matter what that person fights for. And I'm sure that by the time of next year's elections, Brazil will greatly improve the picture of its politicians. Whether for Congress or for the Legislative Assemblies.

 To all of you, from my dear or my dear, Vale do Ribeira, thank you very much. Today, citizens who practice family farming can sell up to 20 thousand reais per year to schools. We will, at least, double this amount. More and more, we value family farming. The one that takes food directly to all of our tables.  

So, my people from Vale do Ribeira, thank you very much for the opportunity. You can be sure, together we will build our new Brazil. 

Thank you all. Brazil above all, God above all.
