Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Inauguration Ceremony of the Minister of the Civil House - Palácio do Planalto

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-na-solenidade-de-posse-do-ministro-da-casa-civil-palacio-do-planalto
 
Palácio do Planalto, April 6, 2021


Authorities already appointed.

Ladies and Gentlemen.

There is no school to be president or minister. We have it here, you are witnesses of it. We have to have the courage to decide. As I learned at the Cadet Preparatory School, at the Rezende Academy, that worse than a poorly made decision is indecision. 

These are difficult decisions that we often make. Now, I also learned after old age that the curriculum is very important. But there is something that is much, much more important than the CV, it is trust in people. And so we must assemble the team that proposes, volunteers to be with us, especially in difficult times. 

Our friendship with Ramos has been going on for a long time and we never dreamed of reaching four stars. And I also won the Academy with so much difficulty that we had ahead of us, but persistence, the will to win and that feeling of serving the country, hits higher.

We demonstrate something that is an obligation for each of us. Honesty. Never here, no one came to me at that table and changed that comma of this decree, which we talk about outside. And I am convinced and certain that the same happens with our ministers. It is the way we have to dedicate ourselves entirely to the service of the Fatherland.

Braga Neto leaves here now too, more modern than a year ago, to command the Defense. I got to know him a lot here, almost nothing at the Academy, right, Braga Neto? I think one year there is hazing the next and there is little contact. But I also learned to know other citizens beneath the uniform and jacket. A human being too, almost unparalleled. 

So, we are well served. We are improving, looking for ways to face the unknown. We learned conventional warfare at the Academy, but very little about guerrilla warfare. And the guerrillas don't know where the enemy is. It is often by our side, but we are increasingly looking for ways to also face this enemy. Because what matters to all of us is to provide better days for the Brazilian people.

And I am sure, with this new role for Ramos, he will dedicate himself even more to the Civil House, so that he can coordinate the ministries, helping us in this difficult mission that lies ahead.

Therefore, I want to once again thank Ramos and ask God that he continues not only with his beloved wife, but with us for many, many years.

Thank you very much.
