Speech by the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, at the Launch of the Agro Circuit - Stage 2022 - Carreta Agro BB -Brasília/DF

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/discurso-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-no-lancamento-do-circuito-agro-etapa-2022-carreta-agro-bb-brasilia-df

Brasília/DF, January 17, 2022

It is a great satisfaction to be here alongside men and women who produce, who face challenges and who are truly the locomotive of our economy.

Mr Vice President, 

Minister Paulo Guedes, 

Dear Fausto Ribeiro, president of Banco do Brasil, 

Senator Nelsinho,

Deputies Passarinho and Nelson Barbudo,

Dear Cuiabano, I am pleased to see you here always happy, radiating joy.

What can I say to you guys? A little history of the last three years, so we can get our bearings and often, after the speeches, someone talks to us and presents new ideas. Banco do Brasil has always been a partner of all of you. I have been a customer since 1974, when I opened the account in Resende, at the Academia Militar das Agulhas Negras.

But here, the issue of agriculture on the part of the Federal Government, everyone must remember that we had some difficulties in the past. For example, the actions of the MST. We practically annulled the MST's actions, taking public money, which went to NGOs that financed the MST. Also, over three years we distributed more titles than twenty years of previous governments. We then took away the strength of the MST, through the use of those who were involved in an agrarian reform, which never ended.

Also, when talking about firearms, the weapon is a synonym for freedom. An armed man will never be enslaved. We extended the possession of firearms, it became possession, extended possession, with the support of the National Congress, whereby rural men were now able to use their weapons, not just on their physical property, right, where they lived, but on your entire property. This gave you more peace of mind.

When we started our government, obviously, we had to choose ministers, we chose an excellent person, who was actually a suggestion from the Brazilian Parliament, Mrs. Tereza Cristina, for Agriculture. A simply fantastic person, who truly embodies every feeling of a country man. As well as Minister Salles, of the Environment. We stopped having major problems with environmental issues, especially regarding fines. Does it have to exist? He has. But we talked and we reduced field fines by more than 80%.

Obviously, whoever is going to carry out an inspection, or make an inquiry in the field, that's fine, it's their right to investigate a complaint. But the first moment is to warn, to dialogue and in a second moment, the fine. And that also helped a lot, the field issue. Also the flow of what you produce, through Minister Tarcísio, of Infrastructure, as a symbol that remained, in particular, for the Central West, BR-163. There was only 50km left, but sometimes it remained impassable for up to 10 days due to rain.

Also through Tarcisio, something that will happen soon, is already starting to happen, is the resurgence of the railway system for you. I agreed with Tarcísio, in the next few weeks, I will go on a trip with him, we will invite some people, so we can start the inauguration of the north-south railway. Of course, others are underway, such as Fico, Fiol, Transnordestina. As well as, through Tarcisio, a brilliant person, he obtained railway authorizations here. We have approximately 60 orders. If I'm not mistaken, 19 have already been served, that is, the private sector is bringing here a mode that was forgotten in Brazil, which was the rail mode.

Another very important thing on our part. I often put myself in your shoes when I was a federal deputy. And I saw the torture, the great concern and that bucket of cold water, early on, when news came out that our land, your land, was going to be demarcated as indigenous land, with criteria, we know what criteria were used at that time. We completely changed that from there. We did not have a single demarcation of indigenous land in Brazil. After all, we already have 14% of our territory demarcated. It is equivalent to an area the size of the Southeast region. 

We are also working against a possible new time frame, together with the Federal Supreme Court. The score is tied, 1x1. But if this new landmark is approved, we will certainly have, by force of law, new equivalent areas for the South region, which, due to the geographical location of these new lands, would be removed from the Agro map, another area of ​​the size from the state of São Paulo. We have concerns so we are solving past problems and anticipating future problems. 

A simple example, to conclude. I was there on Friday in Macapá, capital of Amapá. Thirty years ago, approximately, the state there wanted nine plots of land, which were equivalent to 1 million and 700 thousand hectares, to come under the control of the state, which belonged to the Union. We gave up on this through the president of Incra, Geraldo, son of a senator friend of ours, he committed himself and managed to deliver part of this, now, Friday, to the state of Amapá. The rest of the areas, as he already said, will be completed by February of this year. In other words, these 1 million and 700 thousand hectares will be used, including, for agriculture, for agrarian reform, among many, many other things. 

We did the same, recently, in the state of Roraima. And many other areas are being worked on in this direction. Return Union land or hand over Union land to the state. And consequences too, for you gentlemen. And there is some demonstration from us, of how we work to help your lives. 

You really were fantastic during the pandemic: you worked. If they didn't work, the economic problems that Brazil would face would certainly be terrible. Obviously defying the virus. I, as President of the Republic, have always spoken about how we should deal with this matter. The Government, here, distributed 400 million doses of vaccine across Brazil. Anyone who wanted to get vaccinated got vaccinated. The Federal Government did its part. 

You guys really worked, very fearlessly. A fact that makes us proud, not only in economic terms, but also in terms of our food security.

Therefore, I just have to thank you, thank the president of Banco do Brasil, for the way he treats you. And obviously, before he was chosen, I talked to him. One of the most important issues we discuss is the treatment given by Fausto, as president of Banco do Brasil, towards you. And I see that nowadays, he has gone beyond, is going beyond, what we discussed during his informal hearing, for him to be appointed to Banco do Brasil. 

So, at this moment, I thank all of you, especially our God, who gave us a wonderful land, so that we can enjoy it. 

Thank you so much again.  
