Words from the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, during the Delivery of the PEC of the new Social Security - Brasília/DF

http://www.biblioteca.presidencia.gov.br/presidencia/ex-presidentes/bolsonaro/discursos/palavras-do-presidente-da-republica-jair-bolsonaro-durante-entrega-da-pec-da-nova-previdencia-social-brasilia-df

Brasília/DF, February 20, 2019

I wanted to say I'm home. Twenty-eight years here is a story, it's a life. I would like to congratulate the President of the Chamber, an old friend of mine, Rodrigo Maia. The president of the Senate, who was my colleague for three legislatures here in the Chamber. And my ministers, in the person of Paulo Guedes, the (incomprehensible) man, greet old colleagues and new ones who are arriving here.

I'm just like you, we're the same. We have the same purpose, the same ideal.

The proposal that is currently arriving here, we know the difficulties, but all of us in Brazil count on your competence, patriotism and commitment to saving Brazil economically. We have no other way out.

Obviously, the project presented now, dear Maia, dear Alcolumbre, will be perfected by you and ladies. And this is extremely important, because the responsibility lies with all of us. And we have to, together, really show, not to the world but, first, to ourselves, that we made mistakes in the past, I made mistakes in the past, and I have a unique new opportunity to really guarantee for future generations a Social Security where everyone can receive.

So this is not an appeal. It's a word from a friend, from someone who was part of this House for 28 years and, who knows, with more life as a parliamentarian, but from someone who, above all, is just like you.

So, my friends, this is the future of our Brazil. Brazil counts on us. We know that some sectors of society will contribute a little more. Exactly those who can more will contribute more, and those who can less will contribute less, as stated in the proposal.

And we count on you parliamentarians, deputies, senators, to improve the project. Because Brazil needs to get out of this critical economic situation that we are currently experiencing.

Thank you very much. God bless you.
